CANDIDATE PREFERENCE IN EMPLOYMENT
NUMBER: 40.055.04
EFFECTIVE DATE: August 1, 2026
POLICY OWNER: CHRO Policy Unit
DIVISION: Chief Human Resources Office
INTERNAL OR STATEWIDE POLICY: Statewide
LAST REVIEWED DATE: August 2026
SUPERSEDES: 40.055.04 (2025)
PAGE NUMBER: Page 1 of 8
REFERENCE/AUTHORITY:

   •   ORS 408.225 to 408.237, 240.306, 184.340, 284.771 to 284.801

APPROVED SIGNATURE:


_______________________________________
Kristin Jones, interim chief human resources officer

Statement
Oregon state government applies preference to candidates in recruitment processes as
outlined in law.

Applicability
All employees, including temporary employees, according to provisions of state law.

Forms
   •   Candidate Preference Toolkit

Definitions

Refer to State HR Policy 10.000.01, Definitions, ORS 408.225 to 408.237 and ORS 284.771
to 284.801.



Policy No: 40.055.04              Effective: August 1, 2026                    Page 1 of 8
Policy
   1. An appointing authority or designee administers this policy as the agency’s policy.
   2. Complying with candidate preference is mandatory. An agency must apply the
      appropriate candidate preference as outlined below.
   3. Veterans’ and Oregon National Guard Servicemember Preference.
           a. Candidate preference is applied for veterans, disabled veterans, and current
              or former servicemembers of the Oregon National Guard whenever a
              competitive selection process is conducted including new hire, promotion,
              job rotation, developmental assignment and temporary hires. Candidate
              preference is applied at every stage in the selection process.
           b. Qualifying for candidate preference
                   i. An agency awards candidate preference points when an applicant:
                         1. Submits all required application materials and follows
                            application instructions; and
                         2. Meets all minimum qualifications and special qualifications of
                            the position; and
                         3. Meets the requirements to qualify as a veteran or disabled
                            veteran, or a current or former servicemember of the Oregon
                            National Guard, as defined by statute and submits military
                            documents as verification:
                               a. Veterans (qualifying for a 5-percentage preference)
                                       i. A copy of the Certificate of Release or Discharge
                                          from Active Duty (DD214 or 215) indicating
                                          service of at least 178 consecutive days or at
                                          least 1 day in a combat zone, and honorable
                                          discharge or a combat/campaign ribbon or
                                          expeditionary medal, or a letter from the U.S.
                                          Department of Veterans Affairs indicating the
                                          applicant receives a non-service-connected
                                          pension; or
                                      ii. A certification indicating the applicant is
                                          expected to be discharged or released from
                                          active duty under honorable conditions not later


Policy No: 40.055.04              Effective: August 1, 2026                      Page 2 of 8
                                 than 120 days after the submission of the
                                 certification.
                       b. Disabled Veterans (qualifying for a 10-percentage
                          preference)
                              i. A copy of form DD214 indicating separated from
                                 active duty under honorable conditions and a
                                 copy of a letter from the U.S. Department of
                                 Veterans Affairs indicating a disability rating
                                 unless the information is included on the DD214
                                 or 215; or
                             ii. A copy of a letter from the U.S. Department of
                                 Veterans Affairs indicating the person is
                                 receiving service-connected compensation; or
                             iii. A certification indicating the applicant is
                                  expected to be medically separated from active
                                  duty under honorable conditions not later than
                                  120 days after the submission of the
                                  certification.
                       c. Oregon National Guard Servicemembers (qualifying
                          for a 5-percentage preference)
                              i. A copy of the Retirement Accounting Statement
                                 (federal DA Form 5016); or
                             ii. A copy of a Certificate of Release or Discharge
                                 from Active Duty (a federal DD form 214 or 214-
                                 1); or
                             iii. A copy of a National Guard Report of Separation
                                  and Record of Service (a federal NGB Form 22);
                                  or
                             iv. A summary of benefits letter from the United
                                 States Department of Veterans Affairs, or any
                                 other official document, provided that the
                                 document demonstrates you are a state
                                 servicemember or former state servicemember;
                                 or



Policy No: 40.055.04     Effective: August 1, 2026                      Page 3 of 8
                                        v. A certification indicating the applicant is
                                           expected to be discharged or released from
                                           service from the Oregon National Guard under
                                           honorable conditions not later than 120 days
                                           after the submission of the certification.
                  ii. For candidate preference to apply, the agency must receive the
                      military documents normally at time of application but no later than
                      at the time of interview. Military documents should be submitted
                      through the Chief Human Resources Office information system, but
                      may be submitted to the recruiter as needed.
                 iii. Preference is applied whether a scored numerical rating method or an
                      unscored method, such as a pile system, is used.
                 iv. Once an agency awards candidate preference and records it in the
                     state’s human resources information system, the military documents
                     do not need to be submitted again.
           c. Screening veteran candidates
                   i. The hiring agency considers all of the following when determining the
                      skills and attributes of the veteran applicant:
                         1. Education
                         2. Work experience
                         3. Relevant life experience, i.e., experience where skills and
                            attributes are obtained through unpaid activities such as
                            volunteering or participating in an association or committee.
                         4. Transferable skills, i.e., skills obtained through military
                            education or experience that substantially relate, directly or
                            indirectly, to the position.
                  ii. The hiring agency screens only for skills and attributes listed in the job
                      posting.
                 iii. The veteran must provide sufficient evidence in the requested
                      application materials for the hiring agency to determine if the veteran
                      possesses the qualifications, skills and attributes for the position.
           d. Interviewing veteran candidates (excludes Oregon National Guard
              servicemember)


Policy No: 40.055.04               Effective: August 1, 2026                         Page 4 of 8
                   i. The hiring agency interviews all veteran candidates who:
                         1. Meet the evaluation criteria for an interview to be granted (after
                            application of veterans’ preference) as determined by the
                            hiring agency; or
                         2. Meet all the required and requested skills and attributes listed
                            in the job posting.
                                a. If the veteran candidate does not meet criteria in 1. the
                                   agency must review the veteran’s application materials
                                   for 2..
                  ii. The hiring agency must document the reason if a veteran is not
                      selected for an interview.
                 iii. Veterans from a pre-qualified list established by pre-employment
                      tests who will be considered for hire from a ranked order do not have
                      to be interviewed. Pre-qualified lists are typically established by law
                      enforcement and fire protection agencies.
           e. Applying veterans’ and servicemember preference throughout the selection
              process.
                   i. Candidate preference is applied at each stage of the selection
                      process, including, but not limited to, an interview.
                  ii. A stage in the process occurs when two or more applicants are
                      evaluated and one or more applicants are rejected for the position.
                 iii. Candidate preference is applied on reference checks used as a
                      tiebreaker or to distinguish between candidates. Candidate
                      preference does not apply when reference checks are conducted only
                      on a top candidate to ensure suitability.
                 iv. The hiring agency may use a scored or unscored evaluation method.
                         1. Scored evaluation method
                                a. The applicable percentage (5 or 10) is calculated based
                                   on the total score possible and added to the applicant’s
                                   total points.
                         2. Unscored evaluation method




Policy No: 40.055.04               Effective: August 1, 2026                        Page 5 of 8
                                a. Veterans or servicemembers will advance one level and
                                   disabled veterans will advance two levels.
                                b. The hiring agency may choose the number of levels or
                                   rankings and define the levels and rankings such as:
                                        i. Sorting levels or piles (for example, “highly
                                           desirable,” “substantially desirable,”
                                           “moderately desirable,” “possibly desirable,”
                                           “not desirable”)
                                       ii. Ranking (comparing a candidate’s skills and
                                           attributes to another candidate)
                  v. The hiring agency may choose the evaluation criteria such as:
                          1. Strengths and weaknesses
                          2. Competencies (skills and attributes)
                          3. Responses to interview questions
                 vi. The hiring agency must define and document the evaluation method
                     and criteria.
           f. Selection
                   i. An agency appoints a veteran or servicemember applicant if at the
                      final stage of the selection process the veteran or servicemember is
                      ranked equal to or higher than a non-veteran/non-servicemember
                      candidate.
                  ii. A disabled veteran will be appointed over a veteran or servicemember
                      when deemed equal at the final stage of the selection process.
                 iii. A tie between a veteran and a servicemember may result in further
                      examination of the two candidates to determine the finalist.
           g. Veteran and Servicemember Rights
                   i. A veteran or servicemember applicant who is not appointed to a
                      position may make a written request for an explanation from the
                      hiring agency.
                  ii. The hiring agency must provide a written response with the reasons
                      for not appointing the veteran or servicemember.



Policy No: 40.055.04               Effective: August 1, 2026                      Page 6 of 8
   4. Malheur County Residence Preference
           a. Malheur County residence preference applies whenever a competitive
              selection process is conducted for a vacant position or for promotion.
           b. Malheur County residence preference applies to positions where the
              majority of work will be performed within 20 miles of the state of Oregon
              border and the state of Idaho border, including, but not limited to, Ontario,
              Vale and Nyssa; an area in Oregon that is across the Oregon border from
              Weiser, Idaho; an area southwest of Vale for a distance of 10 miles; and
              Willow Creek and Brogan. This area is otherwise known as the Eastern
              Oregon Border Economic Development Region.
           c. An agency awards Malheur County residence preference when an applicant:
                   i. Submits all required application materials and follows application
                      instructions; and
                  ii. Meets all minimum qualifications and special qualifications of the
                      position; and
                 iii. Primarily resides in Malheur County.
           d. Candidates may decline preference at the time of application.
           e. Applying Malheur County residence preference throughout the selection
              process.
                   i. Malheur County residence preference is applied at each stage of the
                      selection process, including, but not limited to, an interview.
                  ii. A stage in the process occurs when two or more applicants are
                      evaluated and one or more applicants are rejected for the position.
                 iii. Malheur County residence preference is applied on reference checks
                      used as a tiebreaker or to distinguish between candidates. Preference
                      does not apply when reference checks are conducted only on a top
                      candidate to ensure suitability.
                 iv. The hiring agency may use a scored or unscored evaluation method.
                         1. At each stage of the application screening and recruitment
                            process that results in a score, 5-percentage preference
                            points are calculated based on the total score possible and
                            added to the applicant’s total points.



Policy No: 40.055.04               Effective: August 1, 2026                       Page 7 of 8
                         2. At each stage of the application screening and recruitment
                            processes that does not result in a score, the candidate is
                            moved up one rating at each step in the recruitment.
                  v. Malheur County residence preference is applied after any veterans’
                     preference points are awarded.
                 vi. A qualified resident shall be appointed if the results of the resident
                     applicant’s application examination, when combined with the
                     resident applicant’s preference percentage points, are equal to or
                     higher than the results of an application examination for an applicant
                     who is not a resident applicant.
                 vii. A resident applicant who received preference and accepted the
                      position must maintain residency in Malheur County for at least five
                      consecutive years following the date on which the employment
                      begins.
                viii. Failure to maintain residency in Malheur County for this period shall
                      be considered a voluntary termination of employment from the
                      position.




Policy No: 40.055.04              Effective: August 1, 2026                        Page 8 of 8
