DRUG FREE WORKPLACE
NUMBER: 50.000.01
EFFECTIVE DATE: August 21, 2026
POLICY OWNER: CHRO Policy Unit
DIVISION: Chief Human Resources Office
INTERNAL OR STATEWIDE POLICY: Statewide
LAST REVIEWED DATE: August 2026
SUPERSEDES: 50.000.01 (2024)
PAGE NUMBER: Page 1 of 4
REFERENCE/AUTHORITY:

   •   ORS 240.145(3); 240.250; 240.321(2); Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 41 USC 81);
       Controlled Substance Act 21 USC 812

APPROVED SIGNATURE:


_______________________________________
Kristin Jones, interim chief human resources officer

Statement
Oregon state government is committed to a drug-free workplace that encourages a safe,
healthy and productive work environment.

Applicability
All employees, including temporary employees, and others working in the agency, where
not in conflict with an applicable collective bargaining agreement.

Forms
   •   Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)




Policy No: 50.000.01              Effective: August 21, 2026                  Page 1 of 4
Definitions
Controlled substance: a controlled substance listed in schedules I through V of Section
202 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812) and as further defined by regulation
21 C.F.R. 1308.11 through 1308.15.

Others working in an agency: includes members of boards, commissions, councils, task
forces, workgroups, advisory groups, volunteers, interns, and other communities of
interest to further statutorily mandated and legislatively directed objectives.

Workplace: all property and facilities owned, leased, or rented by Oregon state
government, including grounds, buildings, vehicles and other equipment; all other
government-owned property, including property where field work is performed.

Also refer to State HR Policy 10.000.01, Definitions.

Policy
   1. State agencies shall maintain a drug-free workplace to promote employee safety,
      health and efficiency.
   2. To maintain a workplace free from the use or abuse of drugs and ensure efficient
      and safe public services:
           a. An employee shall not unlawfully possess, use, manufacture, distribute or
              dispense a controlled substance in the workplace, including marijuana,
              cannabis, cannabis extract or synthetic cannabis that is otherwise lawful to
              use under state law. An employee may not possess in the workplace any
              paraphernalia related in any way to a controlled substance, including
              marijuana that is otherwise lawful to use under state law.
           b. An employee shall not be impaired by the use of a controlled substance in
              the workplace or while performing the duties of their position, including
              marijuana, cannabis, cannabis extract or synthetic cannabis that is
              otherwise lawful to use under state law.
           c. The use of prescription and/or non-prescription medications shall not impair
              an employee’s ability to safely perform the duties of their position.
           d. Upon determining or having reasonable suspicion, under subsection 2.e. of
              this policy, that an employee has not complied with this policy, an
              appointing authority shall take appropriate action regarding the employee,
              which may include:



Policy No: 50.000.01              Effective: August 21, 2026                     Page 2 of 4
                   i. Transfer or temporary reassignment.
                  ii. Granting of leave with or without pay.
                 iii. Discipline up to and including termination.
                 iv. Requiring satisfactory participation by the employee in an approved
                     drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program.
           e. Basis for reasonable suspicion shall be any of the following:
                   i. Observed abnormal behavior or impairment in mental or physical
                      performance (e.g., slurred speech or difficulty walking).
                  ii. Direct observation of use.
                 iii. The opinion of a medical professional employed at the worksite.
                 iv. Reliable information concerning use in the workplace.
                  v. A work-related accident in conjunction with a basis for reasonable
                     suspicion as listed above.
           f. An appointing authority shall:
                   i. Grant leave with or without pay to permit an employee who requests
                      to participate in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program.
                  ii. Inform employees of the:
                         1. Dangers of drug abuse in the workplace, the state’s policy of
                            maintaining a drug- free workplace; availability of drug
                            counseling, rehabilitation and the Employee Assistance
                            Program (EAP).
                         2. Penalties that may be imposed for drug abuse violations
                            occurring in the workplace.
                 iii. Provide access to a copy of this policy, or an agency policy that
                      applies provisions consistent with this policy, to each employee.
                 iv. Provide notice of a criminal drug statute conviction for a workplace
                     violation for those employees who are paid directly or indirectly from
                     funds received from federal grants or contracts to every grant officer
                     or other designee managing the grant activity where the convicted
                     employee worked, unless a federal agency has designated a central
                     point for receipt of such notification. The notice shall:


Policy No: 50.000.01              Effective: August 21, 2026                      Page 3 of 4
                         1. Include the employee position title.
                         2. Include the identification number for each of the federal
                            agency's affected grants.
                         3. Be provided no later than 10 calendar days after receiving
                            notice of such conviction or violation.
           g. As a condition of employment, an employee shall notify, in writing, the
              appointing authority of any criminal drug statute conviction for a violation
              occurring in the workplace not later than five calendar days after such
              conviction.
           h. Upon initial appointment to Oregon state government or the Executive
              Branch, employees shall complete within the first 30 days of employment
              the DAS – CHRO – Drug-free Workplace for Employees training program.




Policy No: 50.000.01              Effective: August 21, 2026                       Page 4 of 4
