SICK LEAVE WITH PAY
NUMBER: 60.000.01
EFFECTIVE DATE: August 1, 2026
POLICY OWNER: CHRO Policy Unit
DIVISION: Chief Human Resources Office
INTERNAL OR STATEWIDE POLICY: Statewide
LAST REVIEWED DATE: August 2026
SUPERSEDES: 60.000.01 (2023)
PAGE NUMBER: Page 1 of 7
REFERENCE/AUTHORITY:

   •   ORS; 236.610; 240.145(3); 240.551; 326.113, 328.350, 659A.150 through 659A.186;
       659A.272, 653.601 through 653.661; OAR 839-007-0000 through 839-007-0120

APPROVED SIGNATURE:


_______________________________________
Kristin Jones, interim chief human resources officer

Statement
Sick leave with pay is granted to eligible employees to provide time off from work to tend to
the employee’s or a family member’s illness or injury.

Applicability
All employees when not in conflict with an applicable collective bargaining agreement.

Forms
   •   None

Definitions
Employee: A person holding a permanent, limited duration or seasonal position in state
service.


Policy No: 60.000.01               Effective: August 1, 2026                       Page 1 of 7
Immediate Household: All persons residing in an employee’s primary residence who are
not paying the employee for room and board.

Temporary Employee: Person hired to a temporary non-status appointment (refer to State
HR Policy 40.025.01, Temporary Appointments).

Consecutive Scheduled Workdays: Days during which the employee is expected to work,
excluding weekends, holidays and other scheduled days off.

Also refer to State HR Policy 10.000.01, Definitions.

Policy
   1. Employee Accrual Rate:
           a. Full-time employees accrue eight hours per month.
           b. Oregon Military Department (OMD) Deputy Fire Chief (5554) employees
              accrue 11.2 hours per month.
           c. A part-time employee or a full-time employee who has leave without pay
              during the month accrues sick leave on a pro rata basis. When determining
              the pro rata accrual of sick leave each month, the agency counts actual time
              worked and all leave with pay.
   2. Employee Eligibility: An employee may use accrued sick leave with pay on or after
      the first of the month following the month in which it is accrued.
   3. Employee Transfer of Sick Leave Hours
           a. When an employee laterally transfers, demotes or promotes to another
              agency or university with an independent governing board with whom the
              agency has an intergovernmental agreement, the employee's unused sick
              leave hours transfer to the gaining agency (refer to Movement of Employee
              into the Executive Branch matrix).
           b. When an employee of a school district or an education service district leaves
              the district to become employed by the Department of Education (ODE), the
              ODE may accept unused sick leave, according to ORS 326.113. The
              employee may use the transferred sick leave according to this policy.
   4. Disposition of Sick Leave Accrual Upon Employee Separation or Retirement.




Policy No: 60.000.01               Effective: August 1, 2026                     Page 2 of 7
           a. An employee receives no compensation for unused sick leave upon
              separation except as provided in ORS 238.350.
           b. Upon retirement under Tier 1 or Tier 2, agencies report all of the employee’s
              unused sick leave hours to the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS).
              As of the effective date of retirement, all sick leave will be considered “used”
              for purposes of this policy for those employees who receive retirement
              benefits based on the full formula and formula plus annuity calculations.
           c. Sick leave hours are not restored to a PERS retiree who subsequently returns
              to work except as noted in section 10..
   5. Restoration of Sick Leave Upon Employee Rehire.
           a. Except for PERS retirees described in section 4.b., all unused sick leave
              hours are restored to an employee returning to state service within two years
              of separation.
           b. Unused sick leave hours accrued in an exempt position (other than
              legislative) in a manner comparable to this policy, may be restored upon
              appointment to a classified unrepresented, management service, or
              unclassified position if the appointment occurs within two years of
              separation from the exempt position.
           c. Unused sick leave hours accrued in an exempt position in the Legislative
              Branch are restored according to ORS 173.005.
   6. An employee on leave and receiving short-term disability payments may reserve 60
      hours of sick leave. If an employee receives disability payments while on Family and
      Medical Leave, refer to State HR Policy 60.000.15, Federal Family Medical Leave;
      and 60.000.03, Oregon Family Leave Act, regarding use of paid leave.
   7. Temporary Employee Accrual Rate.
           a. A temporary employee accrues up to 6.14 hours of sick leave per month.
           b. When determining the accrual of sick leave each month, the agency counts
              actual time worked and all leave with pay.
   8. Temporary Employee Eligibility.
           a. A temporary employee may use accrued sick leave with pay beginning on the
              91st day of employment.
           b. A temporary employee may use up to 40 hours of sick leave within the
              calendar year.


Policy No: 60.000.01               Effective: August 1, 2026                        Page 3 of 7
   9. Temporary Employee Disposition of Sick Leave Upon Separation: A temporary
      employee receives no compensation of unused sick leave upon separation.
   10. Temporary Employee Restoration of Sick Leave Upon Rehire
           a. Except for PERS retirees described in section 4.b., a temporary employee
              returning to state service within 180 calendar days shall have their sick leave
              restored, up to a maximum of 40 hours, and the hours are eligible for use
              upon rehire.
   11. Permissible Use of Sick Leave.
           a. Eligible employees may use paid sick leave for any of the following:
                   i. For an employee’s mental or physical illness, injury or health
                      condition; need for medical diagnosis, care or treatment of a mental
                      or physical illness, injury or health condition; or need for preventive
                      medical care.
                  ii. For care of a family member with a mental or physical illness, injury or
                      health condition; care of a family member who needs medical
                      diagnosis, treatment of a mental or physical illness, injury or health
                      condition; or preventive medical care.
                 iii. For purposes under Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993. Refer to
                      State HR Policy 60.000.15, Federal Family and Medical Leave.
                 iv. For purposes specified in ORS 659A.159. Refer to State HR Policy
                     60.000.03, Oregon Family Leave Act.
                  v. For purposes specified in ORS 657B.020. Refer to State HR Policy
                     60.000.04, Paid Leave Oregon.
                 vi. For purposes specified in ORS 659A.272. Refer to State HR Policy
                     60.000.12, Statutorily Required Leaves with and without Pay.
                 vii. For emergency repair of personal assistive devices medically
                      necessary for the employee to perform assigned duties.
                viii. Dental care.
                 ix. For the employee to donate blood made in connection with a
                     voluntary program approved or accredited by the American
                     Association of Blood Banks or the American Red Cross.




Policy No: 60.000.01                 Effective: August 1, 2026                       Page 4 of 7
                  x. In the event of a public health emergency, as described in ORS
                     653.616(6).
                 xi. During an emergency evacuation order of level 2 (SET) or level 3 (GO)
                     issued by a public official with the authority to do so, if the affected
                     area subject to the order includes either the location of the
                     employer’s place of business or the employee’s home address.
                 xii. When a determination is made by a public official with the authority to
                      do so that the air quality index or heat index are at a level where
                      continued exposure to such levels would jeopardize the health of the
                      employee.
                xiii. Note that xi. and xii. do not apply to employees who are first
                      responders.
           b. Family member includes the employee’s spouse or domestic partner and the
              following:
                   i. Parent (includes biological, adoptive, stepparent, foster parent; legal
                      guardian; the parent of the employee’s spouse/domestic partner; or
                      the employee’s parent’s spouse/domestic partner, or in loco
                      parentis)
                  ii. Child (includes biological, adopted, stepchild, or foster child;
                      spouse/domestic partner’s child, or the child’s spouse/domestic
                      partner; or for a child for whom the employee stood in loco parentis)
                 iii. Sibling or stepsibling or the sibling’s or stepsibling’s spouse or
                      domestic partner.
                 iv. Grandparent or the grandparent’s spouse or domestic partner.
                  v. Grandchild or the grandchild’s spouse or domestic partner.
                 vi. Members of the immediate household.
                 vii. An individual who is related by affinity to the employee:
                         1. When an employee uses sick leave to care for a family member
                            who is related by affinity, the agency may require the employee
                            to attest in writing that the employee and the person cared for
                            have a significant personal bond that, when examined under
                            the totality of the circumstances, is like a family relationship.
   12. Requesting Sick Leave


Policy No: 60.000.01               Effective: August 1, 2026                           Page 5 of 7
           a. Agencies may require employees and temporary employees to comply with
              the agency’s usual and customary notice and procedural requirements for
              requesting sick leave.
           b. If the need to use sick leave is foreseeable, the employee or temporary
              employee shall make a request to the agency at least 10 calendar days in
              advance.
           c. If the need to use sick leave is unforeseeable, the employee or temporary
              employee shall provide notice to the agency as soon as practicable.
           d. Employees and temporary employees shall make reasonable efforts to
              schedule the use of sick leave so as not to unduly disrupt agency operations.
   13. Verification of Sick Leave
           a. Employees who use or are projected to use sick leave for more than three
              consecutive scheduled workdays for purposes outlined in 11.a. i., ii., and viii.
              may be required to provide verification from a health care provider.
           b. If an agency reasonably suspects an employee is abusing sick time, the
              agency may require verification from a health care provider of the need of the
              employee to use sick time, regardless of whether the employee has used
              sick time for more than three consecutive days. As used in this section,
              "pattern of abuse" includes, but is not limited to, repeated use of
              unscheduled sick time on or adjacent to weekends, holidays, vacation days
              or paydays.
           c. The agency must pay any reasonable costs for providing any medical
              verification or certification required, including lost wages, when verification
              is required.
   14. Family and Medical qualifying leave: Agencies may require medical certification by
       the employee’s or family member’s medical provider verifying the need for sick
       leave. Refer to State HR Policy 60.000.15, Federal Family Medical Leave; 60.000.03,
       Oregon Family Leave Act, and statutes governing Workers’ Compensation regarding
       medical certification in those situations.
   15. Coordination with Workers’ Compensation: An employee may choose to use sick
       leave to make up the difference between the Workers’ Compensation for lost time
       and the employee’s regular salary rate. In such instances, the agency prorates
       charges against the employee’s accrued sick leave. An employee who exhausts sick
       leave may choose to use other accrued leave to equal the difference between
       Workers’ Compensation for lost time and the employee’s regular salary rate. In


Policy No: 60.000.01                Effective: August 1, 2026                       Page 6 of 7
       such instances the agency prorates charges against the accrued leave. Using leave
       while receiving time loss benefits is not required.
   16. Prohibited Behavior:
           a. The agency must not deny, interfere with, restrain or fail to pay for sick time
              to which an employee is entitled.
           b. The agency must not retaliate or in any way discriminate against an
              employee with respect to any term or condition of employment because the
              employee has inquired about the use of sick leave or submitted a request for
              sick leave.
           c. The agency must not apply an absence control policy that includes sick
              leave absences as absences that may lead to or result in an adverse
              employment action against the employee.




Policy No: 60.000.01               Effective: August 1, 2026                        Page 7 of 7
