CYBER AND INFORMATION SECURITY
NUMBER: 107-004-052
EFFECTIVE DATE: October 1, 2026
DIVISION: Enterprise Information Services (State CIO)
POLICY OWNER: Cyber Security Services
INTERNAL/STATEWIDE: Statewide
LAST REVIEWED DATE: July 28, 2026
SUPERSEDES: Policy #107-004-052 (2/17/2026)
PAGE NUMBER: Page 1 of 7
REFERENCE/AUTHORITY:

•   ORS 276A.300, 276A.303, 276A.306, 276A.323, 276A.326, 276A.329, 276A.332,
    276A.335
•   OAR 128-30
•   Cyber and Information Security procedure 107-004-052_PR

APPROVED SIGNATURE:




_______________________________________
Terrence Woods, State Chief Information Officer




Statement
This policy establishes a unified and coherent statewide cyber and information security
program to manage risks to state agency operations, information and information systems
and supporting infrastructure and services, while aligning cyber and information security
with agencies’ missions, goals and business operations.




Policy No: 107-004-052   Effective: 10/1/2026 Reviewed: 7/28/2026              Page 1 of 7
Applicability
This policy applies to all state agencies as defined in ORS 276A.230, and includes any
board, commission, department, division or office within the Oregon Executive Branch.
The following agencies and boards are excluded:
   • Secretary of State
   • State Treasurer
   • The Attorney General, but only with respect to authority under ORS 276A.303 over
       information systems security in the Department of Justice
   • Oregon State Lottery
   • State Board of Higher Education or any public university listed in ORS 352.002

Exhibits
   •   Statewide Information Security Plan
   •   Statewide Information Technology Control Standards
   •   Human Risk Management Information Security Awareness and Training Program Plan
   •   Information Security Incident Response Plan
   •   Cyber Security Services Assessment Schedule

Definitions
Availability: the principle of ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of information.

Confidentiality: the principle of preserving authorized restrictions on information access
and disclosure, including the means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary
information.

Cybersecurity: the process of protecting information by preventing, detecting and
responding to attacks.

Information security incident: a single or series of unwanted or unexpected information
security event(s) that result in harm or pose a significant threat of harm to information
assets, an agency or third party, and which require non-routine preventive or corrective
action.

Integrity: the principle of guarding against improper information modification or
destruction, including ensuring information non-repudiation and authenticity.

Information security: the protection of information and information systems from
unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification or destruction in order to
provide confidentiality, integrity and availability.

Information security event: an observable, measurable occurrence in respect to an
information asset that is a deviation from normal operations.


Policy No: 107-004-052     Effective: 10/1/2026 Reviewed: 7/28/2026                 Page 2 of 7
Information system: computers, hardware, software, storage media, networks,
operational procedures and processes used in collecting, processing, storing, sharing or
distributing information within, or with any access beyond ordinary public access to, the
state’s shared computing and network infrastructure.

Offshore or foreign computing services: services performed or hosted wholly or in-part
outside of the United States, or services performed or hosted by companies in the United
States using employees or contractors for State of Oregon work who are not United States
citizens or who are not otherwise authorized to work in the United States.

Users: agency, board, and commission full-time and part-time employees, temporary
workers, volunteers, interns, contractors, and those employed by contracted entities
(subcontractors), collectively referred to as users, are individuals authorized to access,
and have a need to use, state information assets as part of their assigned duties or in
fulfillment of assigned roles or functions.

Special Situations
State agencies unable to comply with the standards or procedures supporting this policy
or cyber and information security program requirements must document the non-
compliance and compensating controls and risks assessment and transmit to the State
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) at CSS.info@eis.oregon.gov. Cyber Security
Services (CSS) will review non-compliance transmittals to assess impact on enterprise risk
and provide additional recommendations and requirements as appropriate.

General Information
The people of and businesses operating within Oregon have entrusted state government
with information that they expect will be protected and secured. Information is a strategic
asset that must be managed and secured as a valuable state resource.

(1) General Roles and Responsibilities

   Protecting information security requires coordinated action by Enterprise Information
   Services (EIS), state agencies and individual users, all of whom play key roles in
   protecting state information assets.

   (a) EIS – Chief Information Security Officer:

       The State CISO manages the state’s information security program and serves as the
       CSS Director. The State CISO has overall responsibility for the development,
       implementation and performance of the cyber and information security program,
       including:


Policy No: 107-004-052     Effective: 10/1/2026 Reviewed: 7/28/2026                Page 3 of 7
          •   Developing and maintaining administrative rules, policies, Statewide
              Information Security Plan, Statewide Information Technology Control
              Standards and other documentation.
          •   Managing a risk-based information technology security assessment and
              remediation program, including establishing enterprise risk and vulnerability
              management programs, policies and procedures.
          •   Providing unified enterprise solutions, technology, services and guidance to
              manage enterprise-level risks and assist agencies with implementing their
              own security programs.
          •   Implementing Statewide Information Technology Control Standards to
              effectively limit cyber and information security risks to agencies’ business
              goals and objectives and state information assets.
          •   Managing and executing the enterprise cyber and incident response
              program.
          •   Managing the enterprise information security awareness and training
              program.
          •   Providing information to and coordinating information sharing among state
              agencies regarding cybersecurity risks, threats, vulnerabilities and security
              measures.
          •   Providing information security subject matter expertise to state agencies.
          •   Maintaining security metrics to track the performance of the program.

   (b) Agencies:

       While it is the responsibility of all agency leadership, managers and staff to
       implement the requirements of this policy, the agency head is ultimately
       accountable for reducing cybersecurity risk exposure and ensuring the agency’s
       activities do not introduce undue cybersecurity risk to the enterprise. Each agency
       head is responsible for:

          •   Providing clear direction and visible support for the cyber and information
              security program.
          •   Accepting cyber and information security risk on behalf of the agency.
          •   Ensuring the agency’s compliance with statewide policies, standards,
              initiatives, and plans and with applicable federal and state laws and
              regulations. Plans include but are not limited to the Statewide Information
              Security Program Plan, Human Risk Management Information Security
              Awareness and Training Program Plan and Information Security Incident
              Response Plan.




Policy No: 107-004-052    Effective: 10/1/2026 Reviewed: 7/28/2026                Page 4 of 7
       The basic agency cyber and information security program requirements include:

          •   Confirming responsibilities for cyber and information security management
              between the agency and EIS.
          •   Maintaining an inventory of agency hardware and software assets and
              categorizing assets based on their value to the agency and the business
              processes they support, as detailed in the Statewide Policy 107-004-010,
              Information Technology Asset Inventory and Management.
          •   Assessing threats, vulnerabilities and risks to agency information assets.
          •   Implementing Statewide Information Technology Control Standards to
              effectively limit cyber and information security risks associated with the
              agency’s business goals and objectives.
          •   Establishing processes for information security incident identification and
              reporting, as outlined in the Information Security Incident Response Plan.
          •   Implementing security education, training and awareness for all users of
              agency information assets.
          •   Providing information security policies for agency users in a form that is
              relevant, accessible and understandable.

       Each agency must comply with the Statewide Information Security Plan, statewide
       policies and security standards. Each agency may, based upon its individual
       business needs or legal and regulatory requirements, exceed the security
       requirements established by CSS, but must, at a minimum, achieve the security
       objectives defined in those documents and may not conflict with those
       requirements. Agencies are responsible for developing internal procedures and
       guidance to implement their information security programs. Agencies will review
       and revise their information security plans, policies and procedures in accordance
       with the Statewide Information Security Plan and the Statewide Information
       Technology Control Standards.

       Agency information technology and risk environments are constantly evolving.
       Agencies will implement policies and procedures to regularly monitor and assess
       their cyber and information security programs. Agencies shall:

          •   Ensure that new business needs and risks are reflected in their information
              security plans and policies.
          •   Develop plans, in consultation with EIS, for information systems and
              components that cannot be appropriately protected or secured and ensure
              that such systems are given a high priority for upgrade, replacement or
              retirement.




Policy No: 107-004-052    Effective: 10/1/2026 Reviewed: 7/28/2026              Page 5 of 7
    (c) Users:

        All users are governed by and responsible for complying with policies, plans,
        standards and guidance for information security, and are accountable for their
        actions when using state information assets. All users are responsible for:

            •    Being aware of and complying with state and agency plans, policies,
                 procedures, and standards and their responsibilities for protecting the
                 information assets of their agency and the state.
            •    Completing annual enterprise security training and role-specific security
                 training, as well as participating in enterprise and agency security awareness
                 and training initiatives as directed.

(2) Enterprise Security Baseline

    State information systems are connected with one another and with those of third-
    party stakeholders and service providers, creating shared risk. In order to establish a
    common security baseline, EIS has developed the Statewide Information Technology
    Control Standards which define baseline security controls for all systems.

    Agencies must meet the Statewide Information Technology Control Standards.

    CSS will provide guidance and assistance on meeting the controls.

(3) CSS Assessments

    CSS will assess agency security posture using industry-standard metrics and
    methodologies (such as those developed by the Center for Internet Security) on the
    schedule posted on Guidance for State Agencies page of the CSS website. Agencies
    will ensure any findings identified in the assessment are remediated in accordance
    with the assessment recommendations.

(4) Offshore or Foreign Computing Services

    Agencies may not utilize offshore or foreign computing services, such as for
    cloud/hosting, application development, systems/service maintenance and support
    services, unless authorized by EIS. Any services involving sanctioned countries 1 or
    covered vendors (statewide policy 107-004-155) is prohibited.



1
 Sanctions Programs and Country Information | Office of Foreign Assets Control:
https://ofac.treasury.gov/sanctions-programs-and-country-information



Policy No: 107-004-052        Effective: 10/1/2026 Reviewed: 7/28/2026               Page 6 of 7
   Effective with the date of this policy (October 1, 2026), the proposed use of offshore or
   foreign computing services must be fully disclosed and reviewed by EIS in accordance
   with statewide Information Technology Investment Oversight policy 107-004-130 prior
   to any authorization by EIS for the use of offshore or foreign computing services. EIS
   may request additional information as part of its review. Reference 107-004-052_PR
   Attachment C for additional information that may be requested.
   Agencies currently utilizing any offshore or foreign computing services as of the
   effective date of this policy must jointly verify with EIS that such use is authorized by
   EIS, by submitting information on the services to the State Chief Information Officer
   within 90 days of the effective date of this policy. Submission requirements are detailed
   in statewide procedure 107-004-052_PR. Agencies will cooperate in any further reviews
   deemed necessary by the State Chief Information Security Officer. Agencies may
   request additional time to submit the information by emailing
   CSS.info@eis.oregon.gov. Extensions are only valid if signed by the State Chief
   Information Security Officer.




Policy No: 107-004-052    Effective: 10/1/2026 Reviewed: 7/28/2026                 Page 7 of 7
