                                                                 Policy Transmittal

Aging and People with Disabilities                     Number: APD-PT-26-006

Authorized by: Corissa Neufeldt
Issue date: 4/28/2026
Subject: APS Screening Decisions and Documentation

Transmitting (check the box that best applies)

      New policy          Policy change         Policy clarification   Executive letter
      Administrative Rule          Manual update              Other:

Applies to (check all that apply):

       All ODHS employees                                 County DD Program Managers
       Aging and People with Disabilities                 Developmental Disabilities Services
       Area Agencies on Aging: -- Type B --               Self-Sufficiency Programs
       Child Welfare Division                             Support Service Brokerage Directors
       Children’s Intensive In Home Services              Stabilization and Crisis Unit
       Children’s Residential Services                    Other (please specify): Enter Text

Policy/rule title: APS Screening Decisions and Documentation
Policy/rule numbers: OAR Chapter 411, Division 020, Adult Protective Services
Release number:
Effective date: May 01, 2026
Expiration date:
References: QRG – APS Screening Decisions and Documentation and APD-APS-040-001
Timeframes and Deviations
Web address:

Discussion/interpretation
This policy transmittal cancels APD-PT-24-028 - APS Screening Decisions:
Documentation and Notification to Reporters and collects information from prior
policies and Quick Reference Guides (QRGs) about APS screening into a new
policy.
The policy transmittal is effective May 01, 2026:


1. BASIC ELEMENTS OF AN APS SCREENING DECISION:
  Screening decisions documented by APS in the Centralized Abuse Management
  system must contain enough detail so that an external reviewer can
  understand why the screening decision was made and what available
  information and screening-related rules and policies were used to reach the
  screening decision. Basic elements that must be documented include:
  a. Information regarding the alleged victim’s (AV) age and any reported
     disability, if known. These details will be the basis for eligibility decisions.
     For example: A report of abuse of a 40-year-old adult with no reported
     physical disability would not be assigned for APS investigation due to
     eligibility factors. “AV is not eligible for APS due to age and lack of reported
     physical disability.”
  b. Details about the location of the reported incident, and the identity and role
     of the alleged perpetrator at the time of the incident, if known. These details
     will be the basis for jurisdictional decisions.
     For example: A report of abuse of an elderly adult residing in a prison by a
     correctional official would not be assigned for APS investigation due to
     jurisdictional reasons. “AV is not in APS jurisdiction due to location of
     incident and identity/role of the AP.”
  c. The nature of the reported incident or conduct, and the risk of harm or
     actual harm faced by the AV as a result. These details will be the basis for
     deciding whether the incident, if it occurred as reported, would (or would
     not) meet the APS definition of abuse or self-neglect.
     For example: A report an APS-eligible adult experiencing an incident which
     did not present any actual harm, or risk of serious harm, to the AV, would
     not be assigned for APS investigation. In such cases, you do not need to cite
     an abuse OAR, just state the circumstance and the name of the abuse type.

     For example: The reported incident did not meet the APS definition of
     Neglect due to no reported harm or risk of serious harm to the AV.
     Additional information about the screener’s thought process is helpful.

    For example: “The reported incident did not meet the APS definition of
    Neglect due to no reported harm or risk of serious harm as AV was
    accompanied by staff when they left the secured unit and were able to be
    redirected back into the unit.”
  d. If a report is assigned for investigation, screeners must name the APS abuse
     type that the report potentially meets. Specific OAR numbers or subsections
     are not necessary.
    For example: “Report assigned for investigation for Neglect due to AV
    leaving secured unit unsupervised.”
    Screeners must reference any supplemental information available to the
    screener from other sources (collateral contacts, databases such as CAM
    and Oregon Access, etc.) that support the decision.

    For example: “Age of AV was unknown by reporter, but screener review of
    Oregon Access (OA) confirms that AV is over 65 and receiving Medicaid LTSS.
    Case manager notified.”


2. SCREENING DECISION TIMELINE:
  a. Pursuant to policy, APD-APS-040-001 Timeframes and Deviations, the
     following applies:
      i.   Screening, as defined in OAR 411-020-0060, begins upon receipt of a
           report of suspected abuse or self-neglect by the local office. A report of
           abuse is considered to have been “received,” and screening begun, on
           the date and at the time of its receipt, if received during Business
           Hours. After Business Hours, the report is considered to have been
           received at the beginning of the next Business Day (8:00 AM to 5:00 PM
           Monday through Friday, excluding holidays as determined by the
           state).
     ii.   A screening decision as used in this document means whether
           eligibility, jurisdiction, and definitional criteria are met and the report
           will be assigned for investigation, or they are not and the report will be
           closed at intake. That screening decision is required to be made no
           later than the end of the next Business Day following the day of receipt
           of the report.


3. WHERE TO DOCUMENT SCREENING DECISIONS IN CAM
  a. For all intakes with allegations, the rationale and supporting elements for
  the screening decision must be documented in the “Reason for Screening
  Decision Detail” field in CAM.
      i.   Based on the elements described in (1) an example of a screening
           decision is as follows: “AV is eligible for APS services due to a reported
           disability. AP1 is alleged to have been rough while providing AV care,
           injuring AV by causing marks and bruising. Assigned for physical
           abuse.”
     ii.   In the next example the screener provided information they found in
           Oregon Access. Although this information wasn’t necessary to assign
           the intake for investigation, it was information the screener found and
           considered when making their decision: “AV is eligible for APS
           investigation due to being over the age of 65. Assigned for
           investigation for neglect of care due to AP failing to provide toileting
           assistance to AV resulting in skin breakdown. AP is AV’s paid caregiver
           and AV is a full assist in toileting per Oregon Access.”
  b. For all non-abuse intakes, the rationale for the screening decision to close at
     intake must be documented under the “Additional Notes” field in CAM.
      i.   Based on the elements described in (1) an example of a screening
           decision is as follows: “AV is eligible for APS services due to age and
           reported disability. AV is being released from the hospital and will need
           some assistance with ADLs. No abuse reported, referrals made for LTC
           services.”
  c. Examples and instructions are available in QRG - APS Screening Decisions
     and Documentation.
4. QUALITY ASSURANCE REVIEWS:
   a. Central APS will conduct periodic quality assurance reviews of CAM intakes
      and share the results with local APS offices.
   b. Screening quality assurance reviews will look at areas, including timeliness
      of screening decisions, and thoroughness of documentation of screening
      decisions.
   c. Performance targets for reviews will be set, and corrective actions by local
      APS offices will be required when they do not meet performance targets.
Implementation/transition instructions
This policy transmittal represents one of the process changes related to the
Temporary OAR update effective May 01, 2026. Additional information will be
sent out regarding this OAR update.
Training/communication plan
The policy transmittal will be posted at the APS Staff Tools website, APD’s
Transmittals website, and the CAM Knowledge tab with other APS policy
transmittals. Communication and discussion regarding this policy transmittal will
occur during APS supervisor meetings, APS Training, and other venues as needed.
Requests for technical assistance on applying this policy transmittal should be
sent to the Central APS Unit at APS.TechAssistance@odhsoha.oregon.gov.

Local/branch action required
Please discuss these changes with staff during huddles and staff meetings.
Ensure local APS workers awareness of the policy transmittal and where it is
posted on the APD Transmittals Public Facing website.

Central office action required
Respond to inquiries regarding this policy transmittal as needed.

Reviewed by impacted parties?               Yes      No

If yes, reviewed by: APD Operations Committee, APS Supervisors, APS Policy Advisory
Committee, Central APS Unit, Safety Oversight & Quality
Filing instructions:

If you have any questions about this action request, contact:

Contact(s): Central APS Technical Assistance

Email: APS.TechAssistance@odhsoha.oregon.gov
