                                                                 Policy Transmittal

Aging and People with Disabilities                     Number: APD-PT-25-016

Authorized by: Jane-ellen Weidanz
Issue date: 9/12/2025
Subject: Long-term Care

Transmitting (check the box that best applies)

      New policy           Policy change        Policy clarification    Executive letter
      Administrative Rule           Manual update             Other:

Applies to (check all that apply):

       All ODHS employees                                 County DD Program Managers
       Aging and People with Disabilities                 Developmental Disabilities Services
       Area Agencies on Aging: -- Type B --               Self-Sufficiency Programs
       Child Welfare Division                             Support Service Brokerage Directors
       Children’s Intensive In Home Services              Stabilization and Crisis Unit
       Children’s Residential Services                    Other (please specify): Enter Text

Policy/rule title: Use of Docusign for Long-term Care Services
Policy/rule numbers: OAR 411-014, 411-015, 411-016, 411-030
Release number:
Effective date: Upon release
Expiration date:
References:
Web address: https://www.oregon.gov/odhs/providers-partners/seniors-
disabilities/Pages/tools.aspx

Discussion/interpretation
Aging and People with Disabilities (APD) has contracted with Docusign to help send, sign and
management documents electronically for individuals applying for and receiving APD Medicaid
long-term care services.
What is DocuSign?
DocuSign is a cloud-based electronic signature platform. It lets staff send documents for digital
signatures and securely manage them without printing or mailing paper copies. It can help
save time, reduce costs and improve compliance. Docusign can be used on phones, tablets,
laptops or desktop computers.

Implementation/transition instructions
APD has given Docusign access to all districts for APD and Type B staff that handle case
management related documents. Docusign should be the first option offered to individuals for
signing of forms available through the platform.

There are two roles available for local office staff in Docusign:

   •   DS Sender
          o Sends documents (called envelopes) electronically to individuals for signing.
   •   District Administrator – Each district has a minimum of one dedicated District
       Administrators who:
          o Add or remove users
          o Reassign envelopes to other users
          o Manage shared access and shared envelopes.

If you haven’t received an activation email from DocuSign and need access, contact your
District Administrator. They can add you or resend the invitation if previously sent. If you don’t
know who your District Administrator is, please ask your supervisor.

Key Activities to Date:
  • Added these documents for electronic signature in Docusign:
          o  OPI-M Application (three versions for different consumer needs)
          o  Asset Verification Form MSC 2639
          o  Client Representative Form SDS 737
          o  Release of Information Form MSC 3010 (Only for MED, not approved for PMDDT
             referrals)
          o Voluntary Withdraw Form MSC 457D
          o Authorized Representative Form MSC 0231
          o Various forms related to the Independent Choices Program (ICP)
   •   Created a dedicated APD Docusign support email:
       apd.docusignsupport@odhsoha.oregon.gov
   •   Created a Docusign webpage found on CM Tools here
   •   Developed user guides available on CM Tools
   •   Added Docusign as an authorize app for state-issued devices
Upcoming Docusign Activities:
Third Quarter 2025:
   •   Update Docusign and futures forms to be added with new logo
   •   Add these forms:
          o All forms related to K-plan ancillary services (e.g., home modifications)
          o All forms related to Extended Waiver Eligibility
   •   Create a guide to help staff upload forms and add signatures, dates, and required fields.
          o This will support the Service Plan and Notice (SPAN-2780N) and other forms that
             are auto filled by Oregon ACCESS that require signatures
   •   Explore adding voter registration forms and feasibility
   •   Work towards Single Sign-On (SSO) to simplify user authentication and improve security
   •   Explore integrating Docusign with Laserfiche to streamline document management
   •   Add AAA Type A offices to the Docusign in phases

   Fourth Quarter 2025:
   •   Add these forms:
          o The Provider Task List SDS 598
          o Request for Exception Form SDS 514i
          o The SPAN and SPA
   •   Develop a feedback process for staff to request new forms or changes
   •   Continue adding forms used for APD services that require signatures
   •   Increase staff engagement and outreach, especially in areas with low Docusign use
   •   Continue adding AAA Type A offices to the Docusign platform in phases


First Quarter 2026:
   •   Add any remaining APD forms
   •   Continue improving staff engagement and outreach in low-usage areas
   •   Explore integration with Oregon ACCESS (OA)


Local/branch action required
Review this update and start using DocuSign first for all forms currently available on the
platform.

Central office action required
Central Office (CO) is available for technical support and can provide Docusign demos for local
office staff when requested. Send questions, support requests, or feedback to:
apd.docusignsupport@odhsoha.oregon.gov. In the coming months, CO will reach out to local
leadership for feedback on how Docusign is working and will send a survey for staff. Starting
October 2025, CO will send monthly usage reports to districts that have been added to the
platform.

Reviewed by impacted parties?                   Yes      No

If yes, reviewed by: Ops Review

Filing instructions:

If you have any questions about this action request, contact:

Contact(s): Monique Cole

Email: apd.docusignsupport@odhsoha.oregon.gov
