Policy Transmittal
Aging and People with Disabilities

 Mat Rapoza                                               Number: APD-PT-25-014
 Authorized signature                                  Issue date: 7/03/2025
                                                     Updated date: 7/31/2025

 Topic: Long Term Care                                   Due date:

 Transmitting (check the box that best applies):
    New policy         Policy change        Policy clarification       Executive letter
    Administrative Rule       Manual update       Other:

Applies to (check all that apply):
    All DHS employees                               County Mental Health Directors
    Area Agencies on Aging: Type B                  Health Services
    Aging and People with Disabilities              Office of Developmental
    Self Sufficiency Programs                       Disabilities Services (ODDS)
    County DD program managers                      ODDS Children’s Intensive In
    Support Service Brokerage Directors             Home Services
    ODDS Children’s Residential Services            Stabilization and Crisis Unit (SACU)
    Child Welfare Programs                          Other (please specify):


 Policy/rule title:       Changes to Extended Waiver Eligibility (EWE) process
 Policy/rule number(s):   OAR 411-015-0030                   Release number:
 Effective date:          Immediately                         Expiration date:
 References:
 Web address:             https://www.oregon.gov/odhs/rules-policy/apdrules/411-015.pdf

 Discussion/interpretation:
 Updates to this policy are in red.

 Extended Waiver Eligibility (EWE) services are currently set up in six-month
 increments which requires a six-month review after the initial start date. At the six-
 month review period, the consumer and case manager (CM) update and sign the EWE
 goals/risk mitigation form. The form is submitted to Central Office (CO) for review and

                                                                           DHS 0079 (01.19)
services are set up for another six months or for the remainder of the assessment
period.

There are many administrative tasks involved with the six-month review process that
are a duplication of work for CMs, CO staff, and consumers in comparison to the initial
request for EWE services and at each reassessment and reapplication for EWE
services. To streamline the process, the following changes are being implemented
effective immediately.

Implementation/transition instructions:
Case managers (CMs) are no longer required to conduct a face-to-face visit with the
consumer to complete an updated EWE form and obtain signatures and submit to CO
every six-months. At the initial EWE request, at reassessment and EWE reapplication
period, the EWE goals/risk mitigation form must be completed and signed by the
consumer and CM.
In lieu of the six-month EWE services segments, CO will set up the EWE services
record in SELG for 12-months or through the end of the assessment period, whichever
is less.
CM responsibilities for managing EWE services cases:
   Complete direct contacts with the consumer via telephone, face-to-face or email.
    The frequency of direct contacts should be no less frequent than quarterly unless
    the EWE plan indicates the need for monthly direct contact with the consumer.
    Contacts should be narrated in Oregon ACCESS (OA) and include information
    on the consumer’s attempts to achieve the goals and mitigating risks/barriers to
    independent living as agreed to on the EWE form.
   At the six-month direct contact, label the narrative as: EWE 6-MONTH REVIEW
    CONTACT. Case managers (CMs) should review the history of the consumer’s
    attempts to transition from long-term services and supports (LTSS) to ensure the
    consumer is compliant per EWE rules (OAR 411-015-0030(4)). The CM must
    narrate if the consumer remains eligible for the EWE program. CMs may
    request a consultation with the EWE policy analyst if necessary.
   Set reminders for quarterly (monthly if indicated on the EWE form) direct
    contacts, 6-month direct contact and documentation in OA, and for the annual
    reassessment for each EWE consumer. NOTE: EWE consumers do not show
    on any OA lists or reports.
   Check ONE alerts frequently to ensure the EWE consumer’s medical benefits
    are active. A consumer receiving EWE services must be OSIP-M eligible.
   Whenever a change occurs that affects EWE eligibility, such as (but not limited
    to) an assessment outcome of SPL 1-13, consumer passes away, consumer has
    moved out of state, a change in care environment, finds independent living or

                                                                          DHS 0079 (01.19)
          transitions from LTSS, is no longer Medicaid eligible, is no longer service eligible,
          etc., that change must be reported to APD.EWE.Request@odhsoha.oregon.gov
          immediately.
         If an EWE consumer fails to comply with the goals and risk mitigation as agreed
          to on the EWE form, the CM must send a pending notice (DHS 4234) to the
          consumer requesting proof of compliance before sending a closure notice for
          EWE services. CMs may contact the EWE policy analyst for consultation before
          sending a closing notice to the consumer.
         When an initial EWE referral and renewal is sent to CO for review, the CM
          should wait to send the SPAN until the EWE eligibility decision is provided.
         ALWAYS ensure the EWE form is signed by the consumer/representative and
          CM as verbal signatures are not permitted. The signature is acknowledgement
          that the consumer agrees to make attempts to reach their goals and mitigate
          risks to independent living to transition from LTSS.

Training/communication plan: Provide technical assistance and consultation as
needed.
  sdf




Local/branch action required: Review the CM responsibilities as stated in this
transmittal and EWE rules for consumer eligibility and compliance.

Central office action required: Update current consumer EWE services records to
reflect 12-months of EWE services or update the services record through the end of
the consumer’s current assessment period. Implement 12-month service records for
new EWE consumers and renewing EWE consumers. OAR 411-015-0030 will be
updated with necessary changes. The EWE planning form will eventually become
available on DocuSign.

Field/stakeholder review:         Yes       No
           If yes, reviewed by: Ops and internal review

Filing instructions:



If you have any questions about this policy, contact:
Contact(s): Lisa Bouchell
Phone:                              Fax:
Email: APD.EWE.Request@odshoha.oregon.gov

                                                                                DHS 0079 (01.19)
