                                                                       Policy Transmittal

Aging and People with Disabilities                             Number: APD-PT-25-017
Authorized by: Jane-ellen Weidanz
Issue date: 10/3/2025
Subject: OPI-M Case Management Contacts and Risk Monitoring

Transmitting (check the box that best applies)

       New policy         Policy change         Policy clarification     Executive letter
       Administrative Rule          Manual update             Other:

Applies to (check all that apply):

        All ODHS employees                                County DD Program Managers
        Aging and People with Disabilities                Developmental Disabilities Services
        Area Agencies on Aging: Type A and B              Self-Sufficiency Programs
        Child Welfare Division                            Support Service Brokerage Directors
        Children’s Intensive In Home Services             Stabilization and Crisis Unit
        Children’s Residential Services                   Other (please specify): Enter Text

Policy/rule title: OPI-M Case Management Contacts and Risk Monitoring
Policy/rule numbers: OAR 411-016-0010, OAR 411-016-0025, OAR 411-028-0020
Release number:
Effective date: Upon release
Expiration date:
References:

   •   Direct and Indirect Contacts Definitions and Examples
   •   Waivered Case Management (WCM) Direct & Indirect Best Practice Tips for Success
   •   Waivered Case Management Power Point Presentation
   •   Risk Assessment Mitigation & Monitoring Requirements for In-Home Consumers
Web address:

   •   CM Tools website - In-home Services

   •   CM Tools website - Other Tools and Resources
Discussion/interpretation
Eligible Oregon Project Independence – Medicaid (OPI-M) individuals are required to participate
in case management services, risk assessments, risk monitoring activities and the person-
centered service planning process (OAR 411-016-0025).

Services Case Managers (SCM) are responsible for completing the risk assessment, risk
monitoring and documenting all case management contacts (OAR 411-016-0010(c,i)).

Direct and indirect contacts are defined in OAR 411-028-0020. More information including
definitions from rule and examples on how to document contacts in Oregon ACCESS (OA) can
be found in this guide.

OPI-M frequency of contacts does not follow the same requirements as Waivered Case
Management. The frequency of direct contacts is determined as follows:

•   For all individuals receiving OPI-M, a minimum of quarterly direct contacts is required:
       o Using person-centered processes, determine an agreed upon direct contact
           frequency with the individual, no less than quarterly.
       o Document the direct contact frequency in the Person-Led Assessment & Notice
           (PLAN)
•   Participate in monthly contacts if one or more high risks are identified on the risk
    assessment.
       o Document the direct contact frequency in the Person-Led Assessment & Notice
           (PLAN)
Type A and Type B funding is DIRECTLY tied to the documented case management contacts, by
reimbursing AAAs for each of these documented contacts each month up to a budget cap. It is
critical case managers document these contacts for the AAAs to receive the appropriate
funding. If contacts are not made, Oregon will lose access to Medicaid funds that are intended
to support the AAAs which will mean less funding for the AAA.

Implementation/transition instructions
Type A and B AAAs: SCMs must document all contacts (direct and indirect) to accurately
receive case management payments for OPI-M. This will likely mean that CMs will be
documenting more than one contact per month per OPI-M consumer.

NOTE: Tier 1 users (case managers) can enter contacts up to the first of the previous month.
SCMs should retroactively enter the contact under CM Services and enter a narration with the
date of the original contact.
Example: SCM originally narrated on 9/3/25 of their home visit to complete the PLAN and no
CM service was entered at that time. Enter CM service and enter narration with direction to the
original contact.

Narration example: Please see narration dated 9/3/25 for CM contact.

APD: SCMs must document direct contacts for OPI-M cases they continue to serve.

Follow the existing definitions and examples of waivered case management for entry into OA
and documenting in the CM Service(s) tab in Oregon ACCESS (OA).




“OPI-M Services” is required when entering all OPI-M contacts. Add additional services if they
are relevant to the type of contact. When entering contacts, you will be required to enter a
narration that corresponds to the contact made.




Local/branch action required
Review this transmittal and begin implementing OPI-M contact requirements.

SCMs are encouraged to review available training and resources located on the Waivered Case
Management page in CM Tools. https://www.oregon.gov/odhs/providers-partners/seniors-
disabilities/Pages/tools.aspx

Central office action required
Provide technical assistance as needed.
Reviewed by impacted parties?                  Yes    No

If yes, reviewed by: Operations and Policy Review

Filing instructions:

If you have any questions, please contact:

Contact(s): Submit questions through the OPI-M Form

Email: OPIM.Support@odhsoha.oregon.gov
