OfficeoftheGovernor
StateofOregon
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO.06-14
TRANSPORTATION ANDTOURISM TASK FORCE
Oregon's abundant natural beauty, its rich cultural heritage, its historical significance
as well as its engaging and hospitable people, make our state a wonderful vacation
and travel destination.
Travel and tourism are a significant economic benefit to the State of Oregon, with
over $7.4 billion spent on travel and tourism-related activities last year.
Travel industry employment generates 130,000 direct and indirect jobs, with
employee earnings of $3.0 billion.
Visitors spent more than $1.5 billion on food and beverage in Oregon in 2005 and
direct travel spending generated $90 million in local taxes and $194 million in state
taxes.
Oregon invests $9.0 million annually through the Oregon Tourism Investment
Program to keep our tourism sector strong and competitive.
In 2005, at the request of the Oregon Transportation Commission, tourism industry
and government leaders began joint discussions regarding transportation and tourism-
related projects that can be pursued together as part of an ongoing and dynamic
public-private partnership.
NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:
1
The Transportation and Tourism Task Force (the “Task Force") is hereby
established. The Task Force shall continue the important work of
synchronizing tourism and transportation enhancement efforts throughout
Oregon.
2.
The following agencies and organizations may appoint a member to the Task
Force:
Oregon Travel Information Council
Travel Oregon/Oregon Tourism Commission
Oregon Transportation Commission and Department of Transportation
Oregon Aviation Board and Department of Aviation
Oregon Economic and Community Development Department
OfficeoftheGovernor
StateofOregon
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO.06-14
PAGE TWO
Oregon Parks and Recreation Department
Federal Highway Administration
Oregon Congressional Delegation Offices
Oregon Association of Visitors and Convention Bureaus and its
members
Oregon Lodging Association
Oregon Restaurant Association
American Automobile Association of Oregon/Idaho
Oregon Trucking Association
3.
Additional members of the Task Force may be appointed by the Governor and
additional agencies and organizations may be invited by the Governor to
appoint representatives. The Chair of the Task Force shall be appointed by t
he Governor.
4.
The mission of the Task Force is to facilitate a continued public-private
partnership between government and the transportation and tourism industries
that promotes and encourages the continued development of Oregon's tourism
industry. In particular, the Task Force shall:
a.
Formulate a system of communication for increased
coordination of transportation and tourism development in
Oregon.
b.
Identify and remove barriers to efficient travel information
dissemination. Priority opportunities include:
Creation of a permanent Siskiyou Rest Area and
Welcome Center, which is currently operated in a
temporary location, as a worthy gateway for visitors
entering Oregon on I-5 from the south;
Creation of the Lane County Travel Plaza adjacent to I-
5 as a visitor center with enhanced services and a focus
on the Federal Oasis program;
Improved signage for Oregon Scenic Byways; and
 Coordination of map production and technology
C.
Develop a plan for upgrades and enhancements to visitor and
traveler information and rest areas at key portals that meet the
Officeof theGovernor
State of Oregon
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO.06-14
PAGE THREE
needs of roadway users through consistent criteria and
promotion, increase visitor spending, and provide general
traveler information about the state of Oregon in addition to the
promotion of regional amenities.
d.
Identify local, state, federal and private sector resources that
can be pooled or leveraged to accomplish the objectives of the
Task Force.
5.
The Oregon Travel Information Council shall organize and coordinate Task
Force meeting. State agencies identified in the Executive Order shall provide
staff support to the Task Force as necessary.
6.
Neither the Task Force nor the Governor's Office will pay per diems or
reimburse expenses. Per diem and travel expenses of Task Force members
may be paid by the appointing agencies.
7.
This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2008.
Done at Salem, Oregon this 
9
day of October, 2006
Meyh
Theodore R.Kulongoski
Governor
ATTEST:
Bill Bradbury
Secretary of State