Officeof theGovernor
Stateof Oregon
EXECUTIVEORDERNO.06-13
GOVERNOR'S TASK FORCE ON METHAMPHETAMINE
Pursuant to my authority as Governor of the State of Oregon, I find that:
The Governor's Methamphetamine Task Force (the “Task Force") was created in
2004 to analyze and identify possible solutions to the methamphetamine epidemic
in Oregon and to make recommendations to me. The Task Force consisted of
experts in the fields of prevention, treatment and enforcement.
The Task Force recommended legislation that was adopted by the 2005 Oregon
legislature to implement solutions including restrictions on sales of precursor
chemicals, increased funding for drug courts throughout the state and increased
penalties for drug dealers and manufacturers. These changes in the law resulted in
a 78 percent reduction in the number of methamphetamine laboratories in Oregon
from May 2005 to June 2006.
Despite our success at reducing local manufacture of methamphetamine, use and
addiction continue to plague Oregon. Methamphetamine addiction is linked to high
rates of property crime and increasing numbers of children in foster care. The Task
Force must continue its work in order to ensure adequate prevention, treatment and
criminal justice resources are available to build on the successes gained to this
point. The Task Force is ideally suited to identify the most cost effective tactics for
avoiding the social consequences of methamphetamine addiction and trafficking,
and to guide legislative and community leaders on how to best invest their time and
money to make all Oregonians safer from this persistent problem.
NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:
The Governor's Task Force on Methamphetamine is reconvened and
communities affected by methamphetamine addiction.
2. The Task Force will focus on engaging and coordinating with community
leaders, the business community and public officials who can marshal resources
3. The Task Force shall consist of 11 members appointed by the Governor. The
Force.
4. The Governor will appoint a chair of the Task Force. The chair shall establish
an agenda for the Task Force and provide leadership and direction for the Task
Force.
OfficeoftheGovernor
StateofOregon
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 06-13
PAGE TWO
5. A quorum for Task Force meetings shall consist of a majority of the appointed
members. The Task Force shall strive to operate by consensus; however, the
Task Force may approve measures and make recommendations based on an
affirmative vote of a majority of the members appointed to the Task Force.
6. The Task Force shall be staffed by the Criminal Justice Commission. If the
Task Force requires the assistance of any other executive branch agency of the
State, then such agency shall provide the requested assistance to the Task
Force.
7. The members of the Task Force shall not be entitled to the reimbursement of
expenses 0r to the per diem provided in ORS 292.495.
8. This Order expires on December 31, 2007. Prior to expiration of this Order, the
Task Force shall provide a report to the Governor describing the work
performed by the Task Force and any additional work recommended by the
Task Force.
Done at Salem, Oregon this  day of August, 2006.
Theodore R. Kulongoski
GOVERNOR
ATTEST:
N
Bill Bradbury
SECRETARYOFSTATE