OfficeoftheGovernor
StateofOregon
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO.07-01
SEARCHANDRESCUETASKFORCE
Pursuant to my authority as Governor of the State of Oregon, find that:
Oregonians enjoy a proud tradition of aiding those in need. Every year, countless
search and rescue professionals and volunteers are called upon to assist persons in
distress. These professionals and volunteers are dedicated to the cause of helping
others in danger. Oregonians and visitors to our state owe a great debt of gratitude
to those who engage in this humanitarian and sometimes life-threatening effort.
Under Oregon law, county sheriffs are vested with primary responsibility for search
and rescue activities within their counties. In addition, the Oregon Office of
Emergency Management provides resource assistance to counties when a search
and rescue operation exceeds local capacity, coordinates the activities of various
agencies involved in search and rescue, liaisons with the Oregon State Sheriffs'
Association and other private and public agencies involved in search and rescue,
primary responsibility and state support—-has served Oregon well for many years.
Several events over recent months warrant a close examination of Oregon's search
and rescue system and infrastructure. It is incumbent upon us to ensure that
Oregon's search and rescue system is constructed in a manner that allows for and
encourages effective and speedy communication, coordination, and the pooling of
all available and necessary resources.
NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:
1
The Search and Rescue Task Force (the "Task Force") is established.
2.
The Task Force is to consider whether changes to the laws,
administrative rules and related policies of the State of Oregon are
necessary to ensure proper coordination and communications between
federal, state and local authorities in search and rescue operations.
3.
In the course of its work, the Task Force is to review Oregon statutes,
operations. The Task Force is directed to compare the contemporary
best practices of search and rescue with current Oregon statutes, rules
and policies and make recommendations where change is needed. The
OfficeoftheGovernor
Stateof Oregon
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07-01
PAGE TWO
Task Force may review and consider any after-action reports of specific
search and rescue efforts that it deems relevant to its charge. The Task
Force is encouraged to focus and place emphasis on communication,
coordination, and the effective pooling of available resources.
4.
The Task Force shall consist of 14-17 members to be appointed by the
Governor. The Task Force membership shall include:
a. At least one representative of the Oregon State Police;
b. At least one representative of the Oregon Military Department;
C.
The Oregon Office of Emergency Management Search and Rescue
Coordinator;
d.
The Director of the Oregon Office of Emergency Management;
e.
The Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services;
f.
A representative of the Oregon State Sheriffs’ Association;
 A representative of the Portland Police Bureau;
g.
h.
A representative of the Civil Air Patrol;
i.
 A representative of the United States Bureau of Land Management;
j.
A representative of the United States Forest Service;
k.
.A certified search and rescue volunteer;
1.  A representative of the cellular phone industry;
m. At least one member of the Oregon House of Representatives;
n. At least one member of the Oregon State Senate; and
0. At least one member of the general public.
5.
The Governor's Senior Policy Advisor for Public Safety shall serve as
an ex officio member of the Task Force and shall chair the Task Force.
6.
The Oregon Office of Emergency Management shall provide staff
support to the Task Force. The Department of Justice may be asked to
provide legal advice to the Task Force if necessary. Other state
agencies shall assist the Task Force upon request.
7.
The Task Force shall submit a report with its findings and conclusions
to the Governor by March 31, 2007. An extension of time may be
requested if necessary. However, the report needs to be provided in
adequate time to allow recommendations to be brought to the attention
of the 2007 session of the Legislative Assembly if necessary.
Officeof theGovernor
StateofOregon
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07-01
PAGE THREE
8.
Task Force member are not entitled to a per diem.
9.
This Order expires on June 30, 2007.
Done at Salem, Oregon, this 19" day of January 2007.
GOVERNOR
ATTEST:
USECRETARY OF STATE