Officeof theGovernor
StateofOregon
EXECUTIVEORDERNO.06-09
STATE EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR OCEAN FISHINGINDUSTRY
WORKERS
In April, 2006, I issued Executive Orders No. 06-06 and 06-07, declaring that a State of
Emergency exists in Tillamook, Lincoln, Coos, Curry and Clatsop Counties and the
coastal portions of Douglas and Lane Counties due to the virtual elimination of a viable
commercial salmon fishing season and severe restrictions on the sport salmon fishing
season along the Oregon coast south of Cape Falcon.
I directed all state agencies to work in a cooperative and coordinated manner in order to
persons and businesses adversely affected by the emergency, and focus state efforts in a
manner most likely to relieve the unemployment, human suffering, financial loss and
other economic impacts of this emergency. Additionally, I encouraged all state agencies
to think broadly and creatively about actions that agencies can take to address this
emergency.
The Oregon Employment Department can assist in helping reduce the adverse financial
effects of this current emergency by targeting available state job opportunities to
displaced employees of the commercial and recreational fishing industries. State
agencies can assist the Employment Department by identifying available jobs, locations,
pay and the necessary skill sets for vacant positions. The State Department of Parks and
Recreation and the Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board are examples of state
agencies that are expected to engage in hiring that may provide opportunities to persons
impacted by this emergency.
State agencies can also develop criteria and guidelines for determining applicant
eligibility for available job openings consistent with collective bargaining agreements,
statutes and administrative rules.
NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:
Consistent with the collective bargaining agreements, statutes and administrative rules,
all state agencies shall seek to hire qualified individuals covered by Executive Orders 06-
06 and 06-07 when filling vacancies or making temporary appointments, for one year
from the date of thisExecutive Order.
Officeof theGovernor
State ofOregon
859
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 06-09
PAGE TWO
day of June, 2006.
hanLul
Theodore R. Kulongoski
GOVERNOR
 ATTEST:
me
Bill Bradbury
SECRETARY OF STATE
F
P