OfficeoftheGovernor
StateofOregon
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO.06-05
STATE INTERAGENCY COUNCIL TO END HOMELESSNESS AND
INTERAGENCYCOUNCILONHUNGERANDHOMELESSNESS
Pursuant to my authority as Governor of the State of Oregon,  find that:
Approximately 3.5 million Americans, 1.35 million of them children, are likely to
experience homelessness in a given year (National Law Center on Homelessness
and Poverty, 2004). Many are homeless through no fault of their own, but may, for
example, have lives disrupted by mental illness, domestic violence or significant
economic hardship. Many remain homeless year after year.
People experiencing chronic homelessness use a disproportionate share of state
services.
Innovative approaches across the nation and within Oregon show promise for
reducing chronic homelessness and the resulting impact on state services.
coordination and cooperation among federal, state and local governments, as well
as private sector service providers, including faith-based organizations. Creation of
federal initiative to end chronic homelessness.
Coordinating hunger and homelessness efforts in Oregon will aid in effectively
achieving optimal program delivery.
NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:
1.
The Ending Homelessness Advisory Council ("EHAC') is established
2.
EHAC shall:
a.Serve as the designated state entity planning for ending
homelessness.
b. Serve within state government and in the state at large as an
advocate for homeless persons.
C.
Develop a 10-year plan to end homelessness.
d. Provide leadership for and collaborate with those developing and
implementing local plans to end homelessness in Oregon.
OfficeoftheGovernor
StateofOregon
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO.06-05
PAGE TWO
e.
 Articulate implementation strategies focused on achievable
outcomes.
f.
Recommend and promote effective interagency collaboration and
system integration.
g.
Recommend needed policy, regulatory and resource distribution
changes to the Governor and the Legislative Assembly.
h.
 Make recommendations to the Governor and Legislative Assembly
in relation to providing oversight that will ensure accountability,
results and sustained success.
i.
Develop specific proposals and recommendations for action for
presentation to the Governor and the Legislative Assembly.
j.
Prepare an annual report to the Governor and Legislative Assembly
by December 1 of each year summarizing EHAC activities,
summarizing progress on preventing and ending homelessness in
Oregon, and reporting on outcomes and measures relating to
homelessness.
3.
EHAC membership shall consist of not more than 24 members
comprised as follows:
a. The President of the Senate is invited to appoint one member from
among members of the Senate.
b.
The Speaker of the House of Representatives is invited to appoint
one member from among members of the House of Representatives.
C.
 The Director of the Housing and Community Services Department,
in collaboration with the Director of Human Services, shall invite
the following members to participate in the council:
i. One member representing the Department of Human
Services, Office of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
ii.(
 One member representing the Department of Human
Services with expertise on issues related to health care
delivery systems.
iii.(
 One member representing the Department of Education, with
expertise on education programs serving the homeless.
d. The Director of Housing and Community Services shall invite the
following additional members to participate in the council:
i. One member representing a statewide food bank.
ii.(
 One member representing faith-based organizations.
iii.
 One member representing the Community Action Directors
of Oregon.
Officeof theGovernor
State of Oregon
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO.06-05
PAGE THREE
iv. One member representing local Oregon (homelessness)
continuums of care.
V.
One member representing city government.
vi.
 One member representing county government.
vii.
One member representing an organization that provides
assistance to nonprofit housing development.
viii.
One member representing a public housing authority.
ix.
One member representing direct service providers.
X.
One member representing the Housing and Community
Services Department.
Xi.
One member representing the Department of Corrections.
xii.
 One member representing the Department of Veterans'
Affairs.
xiii.
One member representing the Oregon Youth Authority.
xiv.
One member representing the Department of Community
Colleges and Workforce Development.
xv.
One member representing the Oregon State Commission on
Children and Families.
xvi.
One member representing the Employment Department.
xvii.
One member representing the Oregon Department of
Transportation.
xvii. Not more than two members in addition to the members
appointed under this paragraph.
4.
The Director of the Department of Housing and Community Services
shall chair EHAC or shall appoint a member of EHAC to serve as the
chair.
5.
EHAC shall strive to operate by consensus; however, EHAC may
approve measures and make recommendations based on an affirmative
vote of a majority of the quorum present. Twelve members of EHAC
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
6.
The term of a non-legislative member of EHAC is three years. EHAC
members serve at the will of the appointing authority. If there is a
vacancy for any cause, the appointing authority shall make an
appointment to become immediately effective.
7.
EHAC shall be staffed by the Housing and Community Services
Department. If EHAC requires the assistance of any other executive
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO.06-05
PAGE FOUR
branch agency of the State, then such agency shall provide such
assistance to EHAC upon request.
8.
EHAC members are volunteers and shall not be entitled to the
reimbursement of expenses or to the per diem provided in ORS 292.495.
9.
The Interagency Coordinating Council on Hunger (ICCH) established
under ORS 458.525 is directed to address issues of homelessness as
they relate to hunger. The administrative heads of the Employment
Department, the Department of Transportation, the Department of
Veterans' Affairs, the Oregon Youth Authority, and the Department of
Community Colleges and Workforce Development are directed to work
with the ICCH in addressing issues of homelessness related to
hunger. The administrative head of these agencies may designate an
agency representative who has a policy-making role affecting issues of
hunger or homelessness to meet this requirement.
10.
ICCH and EHAC shall both work with the Commission on Children and
Families Runaway Youth Task Force to coordinate programs relating to
homeless youth. In youth-related programs, the Oregon State
Commission on Children and Families shall serve as the lead
coordinating agency.
11
This Order shall remain in effect until rescinded.
Done at Portland, Oregon, this 4" day of April, 2006
ulngal
GOVERNOR
ATTEST:
SECRETARYOFSTATE