OfficeoftheGovernor
StateofOregon
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO.06-03
GOVERNOR'S TASKFORCE ON EQUALITY IN OREGON
Pursuant to my authority as Governor of the State of Oregon, find that:
Equal protection under the law is the cornerstone of a just and democratic society.
In order for Oregon to compete and succeed in the global economy, each Oregonian must be
provided with the opportunity to reach his or her full potential and to contribute to the
general welfare as an equal member of society. Discrimination of any type prevents
Oregonians from enjoying the full pursuit of happiness to which all are entitled and prevents
the State of Oregon from being the best it can be and from competing effectively in the
world.
Anti-discrimination legislation that protects against discrimination based on sexual
orientation in employment, housing and/or public accommodation has been adopted in at
least seventeen states of the United States of America and in numerous countries around the
world.
The citizens of Oregon deserve to have their government examine this issue carefully and to
consider the need for legislation in Oregon to assure equal protection and opportunities for
all. If statutory changes are warranted, then such changes must be brought before the next
Legislative Assembly and given full consideration.
NOW THEREFORE,ITIS HEREBY DIRECTEDAND ORDERED:
1. The Governor's Taskforce on Equality (the “"Taskforce") is established.
2. The Taskforce shall consider whether changes to the laws of the State of Oregon are
needed in order to guarantee that all Oregonians are adequately protected from
discrimination in employment, housing, public accommodations, and other opportunities
regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity. As part of this analysis, the Taskforce
shall review anti-discrimination legislation adopted by other states, as well as the
proposals introduced during the 2005 session of the Oregon Legislative Assembly. When
considering legislation adopted by other states, the Taskforce should focus on the actual
effects of adoption of such legislation, including any effects on business. The Taskforce
shall review, analyze and recommend whatever changes to the laws of the State of
Oregon that it considers necessary and appropriate.
3.  The Taskforce shall also review, analyze and recommend changes to the laws and
administrative rules of the State of Oregon in order to ensure that all levels of state
government afford the same rights and privileges to all Oregonians regardless of sexual
pathway for grievance, enforcement and resolution if Oregonians experience unequal
treatment or discrimination in either the public or private sectors.
OfficeoftheGovernor
StateofOregon
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 06-03
PAGE TWO
4. The Taskforce shall also review, analyze and recommend changes to the laws and
administrative rules of the State of Oregon in order to ensure that all levels of state
government afford the same rights and privileges to all Oregonians regardless of sexual
orientation or gender identity and to ensure that Oregon law provides an appropriate legal
pathway for grievance, enforcement and resolution if Oregonians experience unequal
treatment or discrimination in either the public or private sectors.
5.  The Taskforce shall consist of between 8 and 12 members appointed by the Governor.
6. The Governor will appoint a chair of the Taskforce. The chair shall establish an agenda
for the Taskforce, and provide leadership and direction for the Taskforce.
7. A quorum for Taskforce meetings shall consist of a majority of the appointed members.
The Taskforce shall strive to operate by consensus; however, the Taskforce may approve
measures and make recommendations based on an affirmative vote of a majority of the
members appointed to the Taskforce.
8. The Taskforce shall provide a final report to. the Governor's Office no later than
December 1, 2006. The report shall include recommendations for changes to Oregon law
that the Taskforce believes are warranted and shall include drafts of any such legislative
changes for consideration by the 2007 Legislative Assembly.
9. The Taskforce shall be staffed by the Office of the Governor. If the Taskforce requires
the assistance of any other executive branch agency of the State, then such agency shall
provide such assistance to the Taskforce upon request.
9. The members of the Commission shall not be entitled to the reimbursement of expenses
or to the per diem provided in ORS 292.495.
10. This Order expires on December 31, 2006.
Done at Salem, Oregon, this 9th day of February, 2006.
Huulnyl
GOVERNOR
ATTEST:
B
SECRETARY OFSTATE