OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
Statewide Policy

NUMBER: 45.15.00
SUBJECT: Payroll: Payroll Accounts Reimbursement
EFFECTIVE DATE: 08/07/2026
POLICY OWNER: Office of the State Controller | Oregon Statewide Payroll Services (OSPS)
DIVISION: Chief Financial Office
LAST REVIEWED DATE: 08/07/2026
SUPERSEDES: Policy # 45.15.00.PO and 45.15.00.PR. (08/15/2001)
PAGE NUMBER: Page 1 of 3
REFERENCE/AUTHORITY:

   •   ORS 291.405
   •   ORS 291.407
   •   ORS 292.026
   •   ORS 292.036
   •   ORS 320.550
APPROVED BY:

Kate Nass, Chief Financial Officer, Approval on file
_______________________________________

Statement
This is the state’s policy on the reimbursement of the joint payroll account and mass
transit accounts for each payroll period.

Applicability
This policy applies to all state agencies that are subject to the Oregon Accounting Manual
(OAM), as outlined in OAM 01.05.00, Introduction: Scope and Applicability. If any
provisions of OAM policies or procedures conflict with collective bargaining agreements,
the provisions of collective bargaining agreements would supersede OAM guidance.


Oregon Accounting Manual             Policy No: 45.15.00                         Page 1 of 3
Definitions
Joint Payroll Account: The account in the State Treasury established by statute for the
purpose of funding payroll expenses of agencies whose payrolls are processed by OSPS.
Agencies must reimburse this account for those expenses.
Mass Transit Account: The mass transit account is established in the General Fund of the
State Treasury and was established by statute for the purpose of funding mass transit
expenses. Oregon Department of Administrative Services assesses state agencies and
provides money from those assessments to mass transit districts.
Payday: Payday is normally the first day of the month, except for supplemental payrolls.
When the first day of the month falls on a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, payday is the prior
workday. The exception is December payroll, which will always be paid on the first banking
day in January.
Refer to OAM 65.00.00, Glossary for definitions.

Policy
101.   Agencies served by the Workday Payroll System will reimburse the Joint Payroll
       Account and the Mass Transit Account for their respective payroll costs by payday
       for each payroll processing run.

Procedure
102.   The Workday Payroll System prepares vendor and payroll checks and reports. The
       Workday Payroll System transmits reports and provides the Statewide Financial
       Management Application (SFMA) reimbursement amounts.
103.   SFMA reimbursement amounts (accounts receivable) are reconciled by the
       Statewide Financial Management Services (SFMS) unit to the Workday information
       by payroll run, taking into consideration timing options for payroll run 2. For
       agencies that need detailed information from their subsidiary system, agencies can
       run the following Workday report for summarized information to accommodate this
       need: PAY | Summarized Cost Allocation by Agency, Cost Center, Grant, Project
       – Matrix. Detailed information can be reviewed using the following reports: PAY |
       Detailed Cost Allocation by Worker Deductions and PAY | Detailed Cost
       Allocation by Worker Earnings. It is the responsibility of the agency to reconcile
       the original total dollars from Workday to the SFMA interface file. To access the
       interface file, refer to OAM 45.17.00, Payroll: Payroll Data Integrity. SFMS will also
       verify totals for these agencies to assure the SFMA accounts receivable agency
       totals equal the agency total payroll accounts payable.

Oregon Accounting Manual             Policy No: 45.15.00                           Page 2 of 3
104.   By payday, all payroll information will be interfaced to SFMA so that SFMA can
       automatically reimburse the Joint Payroll Account. When agency funds are
       available (which should be no later than payday), SFMA automatically reimburses
       the Joint Payroll Account for the appropriate amount based on the Workday Payroll
       information.
105.   After SFMA receives the Workday payroll information, it generates the appropriate
       Mass Transit contributions, which reimburses the Mass Transit Account. For
       agencies that do not have their accounting in SFMA, DAS Shared Financial Services
       generates invoices that include Mass Transit contributions for reimbursement to
       the Mass Transit Account.
106.   If an agency’s cash position does not permit prompt reimbursement of payroll and
       Mass Transit, a request for temporary delay should be sent to the state controller.
107.   The request, signed by the agency head, should address the reasons for the delay,
       the expected payment date, the likelihood of future deficiencies, and the corrective
       action planned.
108.   It is not appropriate for an agency to postpone the liquidation of payroll payables
       without following the procedures identified in paragraphs 106 and 107.
109.   SFMS monitors receivable balances and reports to OSPS any outstanding
       reimbursements over 45 days old. OSPS reports outstanding reimbursements over
       45 days old, by pay date and amount, to the state controller and the Chief Financial
       Officer.
110.   The state controller pursues delinquent accounts.




Oregon Accounting Manual             Policy No: 45.15.00                           Page 3 of 3
