OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
Statewide Policy

NUMBER: 45.42.00
SUBJECT: Payroll: Appropriate Materials to Distribute with Payroll
EFFECTIVE DATE: 08/07/2026
POLICY OWNER: Office of the State Controller | Oregon Statewide Payroll Services (OSPS)
DIVISION: Chief Financial Office
LAST REVIEWED DATE: 08/07/2026
SUPERSEDES: Policy # 45.42.00 (03/24/2006)
PAGE NUMBER: Page 1 of 3
REFERENCE/AUTHORITY:

   •   ORS 292.018
   •   ORS 292.026
   •   ORS 292.036
   •   OAR 125-015-0200
   •   OAR 125-090-0085

APPROVED BY:
Kate Nass, Chief Financial Officer | Approval on File


Statement
This is the state’s policy which defines what materials are appropriate for agencies to
distribute with payroll checks or direct deposit statements distributed to employees,
taking into consideration what is an appropriate part of the payroll business transaction as
well as the costs associated with distribution.

Applicability
This policy applies to all state agencies that are subject to the Oregon Accounting Manual
(OAM), as outlined in OAM 01.05.00, Introduction: Scope and Applicability. If any




Oregon Accounting Manual             Policy No: 45.42.00                          Page 1 of 3
provisions of OAM policies or procedures conflict with collective bargaining agreements,
the provisions of collective bargaining agreements would supersede OAM guidance.

Definitions
Stored-value card: A stored-value card (SVC) or cash card is a payment card with a
monetary value stored on the card itself, not in an external account maintained by a
financial institution.
Refer to OAM 65.00.00, Glossary for definitions.

Policy
101.   A payroll payment is a business transaction between an employer and an
       employee. The delivery of the payroll payment, whether in the form of a paper check
       or an electronic deposit statement, is the finalization of that regular business
       transaction.
102.   While some agencies may manually deliver paychecks and direct deposit
       statements within the confines of a single building or office, other agencies incur
       costs to mail or ship individual or bulk packages of payroll payments across the
       state to field offices or institutions. Other agencies contract with the Department of
       Administrative Services (DAS) to insert paychecks or direct deposit statements into
       envelopes and may have the envelopes sealed and mailed. When an agency is
       requested to deliver materials “with paychecks”, that request may vary from one
       agency to another in terms of the process and/or the budgetary impact.
103.   In all cases, electronic distribution of materials and information, when possible, is
       preferable to the use of paper.
Materials Permissible to Distribute with Payroll Payments
104. Allowable distributions of materials with payroll payments are limited to the items
     included in the list below. Each of these items has a direct relationship to payroll
     and employee benefits.
       a. Information that defines or provides necessary payroll related information that
          is intended to help the employee fully understand their pay, deductions, or
          adjustments.
       b. Timesheets and other documents related to the collection of time and
          attendance data.
       c. Enrollment packets, newsletters, or other information that describes or offers
          employee benefits that are provided by the Public Employees Benefit Board
          (PEBB).



Oregon Accounting Manual             Policy No: 45.42.00                           Page 2 of 3
       d. Enrollment packets, newsletters, or other information that describes or offers
          employee benefits that are provided by the Public Employees Retirement
          System (PERS) or the Oregon Savings Growth Plan (OSGP).
       e. Information or pledge documents related to the annual Oregon Employees’
          Charitable Fund Drive or the Governor’s Food Drive.
       f. Information and enrollment forms related to the direct deposit of payroll
          payments to bank accounts or stored-value cards.
105.   Other information not defined in this policy that pertains to or is unique to the
       agency’s needs or mission, as authorized for distribution by the agency.
Materials Mandated to Distribute with Payroll Payments
106. In response to special circumstances, or an emergency condition or occurrence,
     agencies shall distribute with payroll payments any item mandated by the Governor
     or the director of the Department of Administrative Services.




Oregon Accounting Manual              Policy No: 45.42.00                           Page 3 of 3
