OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
Statewide Policy

NUMBER: 45.17.00
SUBJECT: Payroll: Payroll Data Integrity
EFFECTIVE DATE: 08/07/2026
POLICY OWNER: Office of the State Controller | Oregon Statewide Payroll Services (OSPS)
DIVISION: Chief Financial Office
LAST REVIEWED DATE: 08/07/2026
SUPERSEDES: Policy # 45.17.00 (08/15/2001)
PAGE NUMBER: Page 1 of 2
REFERENCE/AUTHORITY:

   •   ORS 292.036

APPROVED BY:
Kate Nass, Chief Financial Officer | Approval on File


Statement
This is the state’s policy on protecting the integrity of payroll data.

Applicability
This policy applies to all state agencies that are subject to the Oregon Accounting Manual
(OAM), as outlined in OAM 01.05.00, Introduction: Scope and Applicability. If any
provisions of OAM policies or procedures conflict with collective bargaining agreements,
the provisions of collective bargaining agreements would supersede OAM guidance.

Definitions
Refer to OAM 65.00.00, Glossary for definitions.




Oregon Accounting Manual               Policy No: 45.17.00                       Page 1 of 2
Policy
101.   In order to protect payroll data integrity, agencies must reconcile their Workday
       Payroll System reports to the Statewide Financial Management Application
       (SFMA) and agency specific accounting systems.
102.   Agencies that make coding structure changes such as PCA or index before batches
       are posted to SFMA or agency specific accounting systems must maintain an audit
       trail for those changes. The audit trail must consist of a record of before and after
       the changes and must be approved by agency management. The structure changes
       must reconcile to, and balance with, the source Workday Payroll System (XREF)
       report titled PAY | Summarized Cost Allocation by Agency, Cost Center, Grant,
       Project – Matrix. The reconciliation must disclose or document proof that the
       results of the changes in SFMA and other accounting systems agree to the source
       documents. Further, those changes must be annotated upon the Workday Payroll
       System XREF report, or documented in another way, to create backup
       documentation that reflects the changes made to the SFMA batch. SFMA does not
       allow dollar amount changes to this information.
103.   While agencies have the ability to make PCA and index changes in SFMA where
       there is a cost benefit, agencies should strongly consider making needed
       adjustments as separate adjusting entries only after the initial batch has been
       posted. This method of making PCA and index changes creates a more precise audit
       trail.
104.   To accommodate some agency requirements where subsidiary systems house
       further allocation of staff time, the Workday Payroll System provides a file of payroll
       data to the agency. This process does allow for total dollar changes. It is the
       responsibility of the agencies receiving these files to verify the final file totals the
       same amount as the original file produced by Workday Payroll System. Files with
       different totals create a serious agency lack of controls. Continued discrepancies
       between the total amount of the original file and the final file may jeopardize the use
       of this practice for the agency.
105.   Per OAM 45.15.00 Payroll: Payroll Accounts Reimbursement Statewide Financial
       Management Services (SFMS) has the responsibility to reconcile the Workday
       Payroll System run information to SFMA accounts receivable information by agency.
       This reconciliation takes into consideration agency timing requests for the second
       payroll run.




Oregon Accounting Manual              Policy No: 45.17.00                           Page 2 of 2
