OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
Statewide Policy

NUMBER: 45.05.00
SUBJECT: Payroll: Regular Paydays
EFFECTIVE DATE: 08/07/2026
POLICY OWNER: Office of the State Controller | Oregon Statewide Payroll Services (OSPS)
DIVISION: Chief Financial Office
LAST REVIEWED DATE: 08/07/2026
SUPERSEDES: Policy # 45.05.00 (03/01/2007)
PAGE NUMBER: Page 1 of 3
REFERENCE/AUTHORITY:

   •   ORS 652.120

APPROVED BY:
Kate Nass, Chief Financial Officer | Approval on File


Statement
This is the state’s policy on scheduled paydays.

Applicability
This policy applies to all state agencies that are subject to the Oregon Accounting Manual
(OAM), as outlined in OAM 01.05.00, Introduction: Scope and Applicability. If any
provisions of OAM policies or procedures conflict with collective bargaining agreements,
the provisions of collective bargaining agreements would supersede OAM guidance.

Definitions
Payday: Payday is normally the first day of the month, except for supplemental payrolls.
When the first day of the month falls on a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, payday is the
preceding banking day. The exception is December payroll, which will always be paid on
the first banking day in January.



Oregon Accounting Manual             Policy No: 45.05.00                         Page 1 of 3
Refer to OAM 65.00.00, Glossary for definitions.

Policy
Scheduled Paydays
101. Payrolls will be processed by the Workday Payroll System team to ensure
     compliance with ORS 652.120, that no more than 35 days elapse between paydays.
102.   Payroll for salaried employees is processed based on a forecast of the hours the
       employee is expected to work in the monthly Run 1. The purpose of processing the
       monthly Run 2 is to refine the forecasted data from Run 1 by incorporating actual
       time and leave records. Hourly employees are paid from Run 1 and Run 2 based on
       the hours recorded and approved on their timesheet.

New Employees
103. Salaried employees who are employed prior to the processing cutoff date published
     in the Workday Payroll System Processing Calendar will receive wages calculated
     on a forecast basis on the next scheduled payday as described in paragraph 102.
104.   Hourly employees are paid semi-monthly and receive pay for actual hours recorded
       and approved through an agency defined cutoff date, usually about the fifteenth
       and the last day of the month. Payday generally occurs on the first and fifteenth day
       of the month, adjusted as necessary as described in the payday definition.
105.   Salaried and hourly employees, whose employment begins after payroll cutoff but
       before the first of the month, will receive payment for actual hours recorded and
       approved through month-end no later than the fifteenth of the month following.

Underpayment of Wages
106. Per ORS 652.120, when an employer received notice that an employee has not been
     paid the full amount the employee is owed on a regular payday and there is no
     dispute between the employer and the employee regarding the amount of the
     unpaid wages:
       a. If the unpaid amount is less than five percent of the employee’s gross wages due
          on the regular payday, the employer shall pay the employee the unpaid amount
          no later than the next regular payday; or
       b. If the unpaid amount is five percent or more of the employee’s gross wages due
          on the regular payday, the employer shall pay the employee the unpaid amount
          within three days after the employer has received notice of the unpaid amount,
          excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.




Oregon Accounting Manual             Policy No: 45.05.00                          Page 2 of 3
Agency Time Systems
107. Agencies with approved time tracking integrations to the Workday Payroll System
     must configure their system and set processing schedules according to the
     deadlines established on the Workday Payroll System Processing Calendar to meet
     processing deadlines.




Oregon Accounting Manual          Policy No: 45.05.00                      Page 3 of 3
