OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
Statewide Policy

NUMBER: 45.25.00
SUBJECT: Payroll: Payroll Advance
EFFECTIVE DATE: 08/07/2026
POLICY OWNER: Office of the State Controller | Oregon Statewide Payroll Services (OSPS)
DIVISION: Chief Financial Office
LAST REVIEWED DATE: 08/07/2026
SUPERSEDES: Policy # 45.25.00 PO and 45.25.00 PR (03/04/2003)
PAGE NUMBER: Page 1 of 4
REFERENCE/AUTHORITY:

   •   ORS 292.033
   •   ORS 292.036
   •   ORS 293.330
   •   Applicable Collective Bargaining Agreements

APPROVED BY:
Kate Nass, Chief Financial Officer | Approval on File


Statement
This is the state’s policy on a payroll advance of earned salary or wages.

Applicability
This policy applies to all state agencies that are subject to the Oregon Accounting Manual
(OAM), as outlined in OAM 01.05.00, Introduction: Scope and Applicability. If any
provisions of OAM policies or procedures conflict with collective bargaining agreements,
the provisions of collective bargaining agreements would supersede OAM guidance.




Oregon Accounting Manual               Policy No: 45.25.00                       Page 1 of 4
Forms/Exhibits/Instructions
75.45.01.FO, Authorized Workday Signatures
75.45.02.FO, Request for Payroll Advance

Definitions
Payroll advance: A small, one-time early payment of funds already earned within the
current pay period. An officer or employee must file a written request for the approval of
such advance with the state agency by which the employee is employed. (Referred to as
                                                                                    Referred




‘regular salary advance’ in ORS 292.033)
Refer to OAM 65.00.00, Glossary for definitions.

Policy
101.   A payroll advance in Oregon state government is provided to state employees
       under ORS 292.033 and various collective bargaining agreements as a means to
       provide employees with access to earned compensation in emergency situations.
       Providing a payroll advance is administratively costly and will be allowed only in
       financial emergency situations.
102.   A payroll advance is limited to a maximum of 60% of gross wages earned to date in
       a pay period.
103.   An emergency situation is defined as an unusual, unforeseen event or unavoidable
       condition that requires immediate financial resources by the employee.
       Emergencies include, but are not limited to the following circumstances:
       a. Death in family necessitating unforeseen expenditures or travel.
       b. Major car repair such as engine, transmission, or catastrophic failure (not to be
          confused with minor repairs, maintenance, tires, etc.).
       c. Theft of cash representing major portion of most recent pay.
       d. Automobile accident leading to loss of vehicle use.
       e. Accident or sickness (self or family) requiring immediate substantial cash
          outlays.
       f. Destruction or major damage to home requiring immediate substantial cash
          outlays.
       g. New employee lack of funds (maximum – 1 draw).




Oregon Accounting Manual             Policy No: 45.25.00                          Page 2 of 4
       h. Unreimbursed moving expenses due to transfer or promotion. This does not
          include personal moving situations such as purchasing a home or renting a
          different residence.
104.   Management’s responsibility in approving a payroll advance should include
       collecting appropriate documentation and assessment of the request for
       conformance with emergency situations, labor agreements, and with Oregon law.
105.   Unless otherwise determined by the agency, it is not the responsibility of agency
       payroll officers to approve, disapprove, or enforce good management practices and
       the application of labor agreements with respect to a payroll Advance. Payroll
       officers merely process the approved transaction.
106.   A payroll advance is not to be authorized or issued as short-term loans of state
       funds for non-emergency purposes. It is management's responsibility to
       appropriately safeguard state assets balanced against the need for making prudent
       use of a payroll advance to state employees for legitimate emergency situations
       authorized by policy or labor agreement.
107.   A payroll advance is prohibited as a method of distributing earned compensation in
       advance of holidays, vacations, or other notable events.

Procedure
Processing Through an Agency Revolving Fund
108. Agencies may issue a payroll advance through their revolving fund but must:
       a. Create internal procedures governing payroll advances in accordance with the
          policy and applicable collective bargaining agreements.
       b. Accept and pay requests for payroll advances in accordance with those agency
          procedures.
       c. Make the necessary entry in the Workday Payroll System when creating the off-
          cycle payment to ensure the payroll advance is deducted from the employee’s
          next regular paycheck.
Processing Through the Workday Help Desk
109. Agencies who request the Workday Help Desk to prepare a payroll advance
     payment must properly authorize those individuals who are permitted to approve
     pay requests.
       a. Provide Workday Help Desk with a completed and signed form 75.45.01.FO,
          Authorized Workday Signatures. An agency administrator must sign the
          form. The administrator may designate an alternate to approve on their
          behalf. The designee may authorize and change subordinate signers on
          subsequent form submissions.


Oregon Accounting Manual            Policy No: 45.25.00                        Page 3 of 4
       b. Each time a subordinate signer must be added, deleted, or changed, a new
          Authorized Workday Signatures form is required. The administrator’s designee
          may approve these changes.
       c. A payroll advance will not be issued without a valid Authorized Workday
          Signatures form on file with Workday Help Desk, nor will payment requests be
          accepted by Workday Help Desk from any person who is not an authorized
          signer.
110.   A payroll advance is ordered as follows:
       a. The requesting employee completes and submits to the agency form
          75.45.02.FO, Request for Payroll Advance, specifying the dollar amount of the
          requested advance. The employee must sign the request.
       b. The agency must ensure that the dollar amount of the request does not exceed
          the maximum 60% of wages due as of the date of request taking into
          consideration any active involuntary withholding orders.
       c. The agency must review the request and verify that the reason for the request is
          in line with this policy and the provisions of any prevailing collective bargaining
          agreement.
       d. The request must be signed by the employee’s supervisor and approved by an
          authorized agency signer.
       e. Once approved, the agency will submit a case to the Workday Help Desk. The
          payroll advance will then be processed and a payment issued as part of the next
          available daily off-cycle payment run.




Oregon Accounting Manual              Policy No: 45.25.00                           Page 4 of 4
