OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
Statewide Policy

NUMBER: 45.37.00
SUBJECT: Payroll: Review of Pay Period Leave Reports
EFFECTIVE DATE: 08/07/2026
POLICY OWNER: Office of the State Controller | Oregon Statewide Payroll Services (OSPS)
DIVISION: Chief Financial Office
LAST REVIEWED DATE: 08/07/2026
SUPERSEDES: Policy # 45.37.00 (06/29/2007)
PAGE NUMBER: Page 1 of 3
REFERENCE/AUTHORITY:

   •   ORS 292.010
   •   ORS 292.016
   •   ORS 292.022
   •   ORS 292.036
   •   ORS 292.170
   •   OAM 45.50.00
   •   OAM 45.55.00

APPROVED BY:
Kate Nass, Chief Financial Officer | Approval on File


Statement
This is the state’s policy for agency management on the effective use of leave balance
reports and coordination with the agency payroll office to manage the risk of payroll
overpayments.

Applicability
This policy applies to all state agencies that are subject to the Oregon Accounting Manual
(OAM), as outlined in OAM 01.05.00, Introduction: Scope and Applicability. If any



Oregon Accounting Manual             Policy No: 45.37.00                         Page 1 of 3
provisions of OAM policies or procedures conflict with collective bargaining agreements,
the provisions of collective bargaining agreements would supersede OAM guidance.

Definitions
Forecast: A payroll forecast is a financial projection that estimates an organization’s total
payroll expenses over a future period. It includes anticipated costs such as employee
salaries and wages, overtime, payroll taxes, and benefits like health insurance and
retirement contributions.
Run 1: This payroll run uses forecasted hours based on the employees’ schedule and
occurs around the 25th of each month in order to process payroll prior to the 1st of the
next month.
Run 2: This payroll run occurs around the ninth of the next month to finalize an employee’s
pay based on time that was entered in the prior month.
Refer to OAM 65.00.00, Glossary for definitions.

Policy
Workday Payroll Processing
101. The state utilizes a forecasted payroll processing methodology. When Run 1 is
     processed, each salaried employee is paid on the basis of a monthly hours forecast
     derived from individual work schedules. Run 2 refines Run 1 by adding detailed
     information from the employee’s timesheet, which may include leave hours taken.
102.   An employee who works less than the forecasted schedule and has insufficient
       leave balances to support the time away from work may have been overpaid on Run
       1. When Run 2 is processed, the calculation will result in a negative pay condition
       representing the overpayment. Employees who terminate after being overpaid may
       represent a collection challenge for the agency. Continuing employees who
       frequently are in a leave-without-pay status could, as a result, be frequently
       overpaid.
Managing Risk of Overpayments
103. As required by paragraph 104 of OAM 45.50.00, Payroll: Collection of Overpayment
     of Wages and paragraph 104 of OAM 45.55.00, Payroll: Collection of Employee
     Benefit Payment Amounts Paid by the Employer, the employer agency or its agency
     payroll provider will run reports after payroll process are completed to determine if
     an overpayment has occurred. If an overpayment in the scope of either of those
     OAMs has occurred, the employer agency or its agency payroll provider shall follow
     the requirements outlined in the applicable OAM.




Oregon Accounting Manual              Policy No: 45.37.00                           Page 2 of 3
104.   Supervisors shall review the leave reports timely, paying particular attention to
       employees who have low leave balances. Employees who have already used leave
       during the pay period may have depleted their leave balances. Employees who use
       leave or terminate during the last week of the month may not have enough leave to
       fully support those days away from work, creating a payroll overpayment.
105.   Because payroll is processed prior to payday, the employee’s paycheck may
       already be in process at the time they take leave or terminate. A payroll check can
       be cancelled and reissued through the Workday Payroll System for a lesser amount
       that reflects the missed workdays, by the agency payroll partner submitting a
       Workday Case to OSPS. For an employee who uses direct deposit, an ACH reversal
       transaction may be attempted if the situation warrants that action. For ACH
       reversals, those involved must be mindful of the timing of such a reversal so as not
       to prevent an employee from receiving their paycheck timely, as noted in OAM
       45.05.00 Payroll: Regular Paydays, paragraph 101, even if this results in an
       employee receiving an overpayment.
106.   When an employee is regularly reporting leave-without-pay due to insufficient leave
       balances available to support days away from work and that has resulted in more
       than one occurrence of overpayment, the agency must take immediate action to
       prevent a recurrence of the overpaid status and to protect against losses or costly
       collection procedures. The agency may temporarily cancel an employee’s direct
       deposit participation to ensure the maximum amount of time available to make last
       minute pay corrections. Direct deposit may be restored once the employee accrues
       sufficient leave balances to support time away from work and the risk of
       overpayments has decreased.




Oregon Accounting Manual             Policy No: 45.37.00                         Page 3 of 3
