



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 1 GENERAL 
 860-001-0860 
 Case Fund 
 
 (1) Applicants seeking a Case Fund Grant must file a notice of intent and request for case certification to request a Case Fund Grant when it files its petition to intervene or notice of participation in the matter or, for matters that do not involve a formal intervention, at such other time as the Commission designates.  

 (2) The notice of intent: 

 (a) Must identify why the applicant meets the eligibility criteria listed in OAR 860-001-0840, explaining why the matter is an Eligible Proceeding. In the alternative, the applicant may identify any prior order deeming the organization an Eligible Recipient and/or deeming the proceeding a Justice Funding Grant Eligible Proceeding and granting Case Certification; 

 (b) Must be served on each affected Participating Public Utility, all Pre-certified Organizations, and all parties of record in the proceeding;  

 (c) Must identify the Participating Public Utility account or accounts from which the intervening party intends to request a Case Fund Grant.  

 (3) Any party or participant in the matter may provide a response to a request for Case Fund certification within 14 days of the filing of the request. 

 (4) Once certified, a Case Fund certified organization must submit to the Commission a proposed budget for its participation in an Eligible Proceeding. The proposed budget must include a statement of work, estimated eligible expenses, and a description of the Participating Public Utility account or accounts from which the applicant seeks funds and how the initial payment should be apportioned.   

 (5) A proposed budget must be filed no later than 30 days after the organization and the proceeding have been certified for Case Fund grants or by such other date as the Commission designates. A proposed budget may be filed with the notice of intent and request for case certification. 

 (6) An applicant may submit a combined proposed budget for related proceedings that are being considered concurrently by the Commission.  

 (7) If the recipient expects to incur Eligible Expenses for Case Funds in more than one calendar year, the proposed budget may seek funds that will be made available in the next calendar year. In such cases, the proposed budget should identify the amount of funds requested from each year’s fund.  

 (8) Any party or participant in the matter may provide a response to a proposed budget within 7 days of the filing of the proposed budget. 

 (9) The Commission may approve or deny, in whole or in part, an applicant’s proposed budget based on any of the following factors: 

 (a) The proposal is not consistent with the breadth and complexity of the issues; 

 (b) The degree to which any policy issues affect the interests of low-income residential customers or the interests of residential customers that are members of Environmental Justice Communities; 

 (c) The procedural schedule; 

 (d) The dollar magnitude of the issues at stake; 

 (e) The qualifications of the organization and experience before the Commission; 

 (f) The level of available Case Funds remaining for the year; and 

 (g) Other Eligible Proceedings in which other Eligible Recipients may seek additional funds consistent with ORS 757.072(2)(c). 

 (10) The Commission will make best efforts to act upon proposed budgets for Case Fund grants within 30 days of receiving the proposed budgets. 

 (11) If the Commission receives one or more notices of intent and one or more proposed budgets, then the Commission will determine the amount of Case Fund Grants that will be made available for the Eligible Proceeding and the allocation of that amount among the applicants. The Commission may make these determinations upon the factors described in the Agreement. 

 (12) At any time during a proceeding, a Case Fund Grant Recipient may file to amend its budget and request additional funding due to unforeseen changes in the scope or complexity of issues, positions taken by other parties, changes in the schedule of the case, or other good cause. Grant Recipients with approved budgets in multiple dockets may request to reallocate approved amounts between dockets by filing a request in both dockets. The request must identify the previously approved proposed budget amounts, the amended proposed budget amounts for each docket after reallocation of funds; and the request must explain the purpose for the requested reallocation. Any party or participant in the matter may provide a response to a proposed amendment within 7 days of the filing of the request. The Commission will make best efforts to act upon the request within 21 days of receiving the proposed amendment or, if applicable, any supplemental information provided in response to the Commission’s request.  

 (13) The Commission may amend an approved proposed budget if it finds that there has been a material change in the breadth and complexity of the issues, the significance of the policy issues, or the dollar magnitude at stake, such that the initial approved proposed budget is no longer warranted. If the Commission amends an approved proposed budget, it will provide notice to the recipient and afford an opportunity to comment and provide a revised budget. A Commission amendment of an approved proposed budget takes effect on a prospective basis only. 

 (14) Pre-certified organizations and organizations who become Case-certified for a specific proceeding are eligible to receive Case Fund Grants.  

 (15) The Commission may approve a Case Fund Grant from funds that will be made available in the next calendar year when the proceeding for which the Case Fund Grant is sought is expected to continue into that year and funds in the current year Case Fund are inadequate to provide the level grant that the Commission determines is appropriate.  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 757.072 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 757.072 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 3-2025, amend filed 12/26/2025, effective 12/26/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 1-2023, adopt filed 05/10/2023, effective 05/10/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
