



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Board of Naturopathic Medicine 
 Chapter 850 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 30 LICENSURE 
 850-030-0005 
 Criminal Conviction Determination Process for Licensure 
 
 (1) As used in this rule: 

 (a) “Applicant” means a person who has applied for a license from the Oregon Board  Of Naturopathic Medicine (Board). 

 (b) “Petitioner” means a person who has requested the Board review their criminal history to determine whether it will prevent them from being granted a license by the Board. 

 (2) A person who was convicted of a crime may petition the Board for a determination as to whether a criminal conviction will prevent the person from receiving a license issued by the Board. 

 (3) The petitioner must submit the Board’s determination request form, relevant criminal history documentation, and the required $75 fee. 

 (4) The Executive Director has the authority to review a petitioner’s request under this rule and to determine whether the petitioner’s criminal conviction(s) prevent the person from obtaining a license issued by the Board. 

 (5) The Board will reconsider a determination that a criminal conviction prevents the person from obtaining a license if the person submits a completed application for a license. 

 (6) Upon reconsideration, the Board may rescind a previous determination that a criminal conviction does not prevent the person from obtaining a license if the applicant: 

 (a) Has allegations or charges pending in criminal court; 

 (b) Failed to disclose a previous criminal conviction; 

 (c) Has been convicted of another crime during the period between the determination and the person’s submission of a completed application for an occupational or professional license; or 

 (d) Has been convicted of a crime that, during the period between the determination and the person’s submission of a completed application for an occupational or professional license, became subject to a change in state or federal law  that prohibits licensure for an occupational or professional license because of a conviction of that crime. 

 (7) Failure to disclose a previous criminal conviction includes any misrepresentation of a prior criminal conviction, any concealment or failure to disclose a material fact about a prior criminal conviction, or any other misinformation  regarding a prior criminal conviction. 

 (8) Nothing in this rule prohibits the Board from denying licensure for a reason other than conviction of a crime. 

 (9) A determination made under this rule: 

 (a) Is subject to the same confidentiality requirements that are applicable to completed applications for a license; and 

 (b) Is not considered a final determination of the Board. 

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  685.125(2) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Oregon Laws 2024, chapter 95, section 44 (SB 1552), 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBNM 3-2026, adopt filed 06/22/2026, effective 06/22/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
