



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 21 COMMUNITY BASED SERVICES FOR YOUTH AND YOUNG ADULTS 
 309-021-0150 
 IIBHT Referrals and Admissions 
 
 (1)  IIBHT providers must have policies and procedures in place which outline their process for reviewing and responding to referrals as quickly as possible in order to address the needs of complex youth and young adults in crisis and avoid the need for emergency department use or higher level of care. 

 (2) IIBHT Providers must have policies and procedures in place which outline their response to referrals and admissions in accordance with these rules and for partnering with local hospital emergency departments (EDs) and local school districts to address youth mental health crises and referrals. 

 (3) Providers shall accept completed referrals from mental health outpatient programs, residential treatment facilities, Community Mental Health Programs, Coordinated Care Organizations, Oregon Department of Human Services, youth/young adults and/or their families, and other community partners when accompanied by the following: 

 (a)  All referrals must utilize the IIBHT Universal Referral Form provided by OHA; and 

 (b)   Include documentation by a QMHP or LMP with recent and direct experience treating or assessing the youth which include clinical justification for this level of care.    

 (4) IIBHT providers shall track all referrals to IIBHT services including at a minimum the date of the referral, approval or denial date, and either the denial reason or estimated date of admission.  IIBHT providers will submit documentation to OHA quarterly or as requested.     

 (5) Per the CCO and IIBHT program’s referral policies, the deciding entity shall communicate the determination decision within 5 business days of receipt of an IIBHT referral to the referring party. This determination shall reference appropriate medical necessity and appropriateness standards for acceptance or denial. If there is insufficient information to process the referral, the deciding entity will respond to the referring party requesting the additional information. 

 (6) Youth shall be enrolled into IIBHT services within 14 days of the referral being approved. If the provider is unable to enroll the youth/young adult into IIBHT services within 14 days, the provider must notify their CCO immediately. The CCO shall work with the youth/young adult and their family to: 

 (a)provide ongoing care coordination and support, 

 (b) ensure that interim alternative community-based services are in place, 

 (c) communicate with the IIBHT provider to facilitate IIBHT enrollment as soon as possible to prevent the need for higher levels of care. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042, 430.640 & 430.705 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 430.010, 430.205 & 430.708 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BHS 3-2025, adopt filed 02/27/2025, effective 03/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
