



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board 
 Chapter 695 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 48 DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION GRANT PROGRAM 
 695-048-0110 
 Evaluation Criteria 
 
 Drinking Water Source Protection Grant applications shall be evaluated on the following criteria:   

 (1) S ignificance of the acquisition of the Protective Instrument to the protection, restoration, or enhancement of drinking water sources with respect to sensitive areas, potential pollutants, and potential sources of pollution identified in the Source Water Assessment for the Drinking Water Source Area .    

 (2) The capacity and experience o f the applicant and , if a P artnership is proposed, the H older , to achieve the ongoing management and stewardship of the Pro tective In st rument , and the property if applicable , as the long-term owner .   

 (3) The strength of the technical, legal, and financial aspects of the real estate transaction.   

 (4) Project readiness, including , but not limited to , the capacity of the parties engaged in the Project to complete acquisition transaction and due diligence steps within OWEB established timelines, a nd quality of due diligence information provided by the applicant .   

 (5) The Climate - Related Evaluation Criteria described in OAR 695-005-0045.   

 (6) For applicants that form P artnerships with eligible H olders:   

 (a) Demonstrated capacity and resources for long-term protection, restoration, or enhancement of drinking water sources .     

 (b) A Partnership mission that is in support of protection or restoration of natural resources and/or drinking water .   

 (c) A c learly defined and documented Partnership including respective roles and responsibilities.   

 (7) The impacts of at least one of the following limiting factors on the Water System that will benefit from the proposed project:   

 (a) The extent to which s easonal variations in the number of users is affecting the Water System ;   

 (b) The extent to which d rought or low water supply is affecting the Water System ; or   

 (c) The exten t of r isk s to water quality .   

 (8) The Water Supplier is economically distressed due to a small population size, the population served is lower income, or the population served is rural .   

 ( 9 ) The duration and type of the Protective Instrument, with a preference for longer term agreements.   

 ( 10 ) I mplementation of a L ong- T erm M anagement P l an or the intent to develop a L ong- T erm M anagement P lan that incorporates measures targeted at maintaining or enhancing drinking water quality and/or quantity . If the acquisition is for a Protective Instrument other than one accomplishing the conveyance of an estate in fee simple absolute or granting of a C onservation E asement and a L ong- T erm M anagement P lan is not proposed , the strength of the required justification and rationale about why a L ong- T erm M anagement P lan is not necessary given the type of Protective Instrument proposed.    

 (1 1 ) The degree and urgency of risk to the land and the associated Drinking Water Source Area if the proposed protection, restoration, or enhancement of lands for the benefit of drinking water accomplished by the proposed Protective Instrument is not implemented.    

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 448.370(7) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 448.370 - 448.380 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OWEB 1-2024, adopt filed 07/26/2024, effective 08/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
