



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 300 WILDFIRE MITIGATION PLANS 
 860-300-0030 
 Risk Analysis 
 
 (1) The Public Utility must include in its Wildfire Mitigation Plan risk analysis that describes wildfire risk within the Public Utility’s service territory and outside the service territory of the Public Utility but within the Public Utility’s right of way for generation and transmission assets. The risk analysis must include, at a minimum: 

 (a) Defined categories of overall wildfire risk and an adequate discussion of how the Public Utility categorizes wildfire risk. Categories of risk must include, at a minimum: 

 (A) Baseline wildfire risk, which include elements of wildfire risk that are expected to remain fixed for multiple years. Examples include topography, vegetation, utility equipment in place, and climate; 

 (B) Seasonal wildfire risk, which include elements of wildfire risk that are expected to remain fixed for multiple months but may be dynamic throughout the year or from year to year; Examples include cumulative precipitation, seasonal weather conditions, current drought status, and fuel moisture content; 

 (C) Risks to residential areas served by the Public Utility; and 

 (D) Risks to substation or powerline owned by the Public Utility. 

 (b) a narrative description of how the Public Utility determines areas of heightened risk of wildfire using the most updated data it has available from reputable sources. 

 (c) a narrative description of all data sources the Public Utility uses to model topographical and meteorological components of its wildfire risk as well as any wildfire risk related to the Public Utility’s equipment. 

 (A) The Public Utility must make clear the frequency with which each source of data is updated; and 

 (B) The Public Utility must make clear how it plans to keep its data sources as up to date as is practicable. 

 (d) The Public Utility’s risk analysis must include a narrative description of how the Public Utility’s wildfire risk models are used to make decisions concerning the following items: 

 (A) Public Safety Power Shutoffs 

 (B) Vegetation Management; 

 (C) System Hardening; 

 (D) Investment decisions; and 

 (E) Operational decisions. 

 (e) For updated Wildfire Mitigation Plans, the Public Utility must include a narrative description of any changes to its baseline wildfire risk that were made relative to the previous plan submitted by the utility, including the Public Utility’s response to changes in baseline wildfire risk, seasonal wildfire risk, and Near-term Wildfire Risk. 

 (2) To the extent practicable, the Public Utility must confer with other state agencies when evaluating the risk analysis included in the Public Utility’s Wildfire Mitigation Plan. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, ORS 756 & ORS 757 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040 & ORS 757.035 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 6-2022, adopt filed 09/22/2022, effective 09/22/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
