



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 89 RESOURCE PROCUREMENT FOR ELECTRIC COMPANIES 
 860-089-0475 
 Selection of the Initial Shortlist and Final Shortlist 
 
 (1) Before an electric company may file a request for acknowledgment of a final shortlist of bids, the electric company must select an initial shortlist of bids and comply with the requirements of this rule.  For purposes of this rule, “initial shortlist of bids” means the bids that the utility and the IE identify as meeting the minimum qualifications and are not disqualified or otherwise removed from consideration.   

 (2) At least 60 days before filing a request for acknowledgment under OAR 860-089-0500, the electric company must file a report in the docket that includes the electric company’s initial shortlist of bids, a list of bids received that are not included on the initial shortlist, an explanation as to why each bid not included on the initial shortlist was excluded, and a description of the set of scenarios and sensitivities the electric company proposes to use to select and evaluate the performance of a final shortlist.  If the electric company makes any subsequent changes to the initial shortlist, the electric company is not required to file any additional reports under this section.  However, the electric company must confer with the IE before a bid is removed or withdrawn from the initial shortlist, and the IE must address the reasonableness of the electric company’s action in its closing report. 

 (3) Interested persons may file comments on the initial shortlist report within 15 days after the electric company’s filing.  Commenters may request the use of different or additional portfolios and sensitivities. 

 (4) An electric company must consider any filed comments and be responsive to requests for additional or different portfolios of bids by either performing the additional testing or providing a reasonable explanation why it did not do so in any related request for acknowledgment of a final shortlist.  The electric company must test additional or different portfolios of bids requested by Staff or the IE and provide the results of testing performed under this section to Staff and the IE within a reasonable amount of time before the IE’s closing report is due.  

 (5) In selecting a final shortlist of bids, the electric company must base its selection on bid scores and a portfolio analysis that considers multiple combinations of all bids on the initial shortlist.  The utility may select a final shortlist that represents a preferred portfolio of bids, and may identify alternate bids that the utility may seek to acquire based on the circumstances related to the preferred portfolio.  The electric utility, unless otherwise directed by the Commission, must include in the portfolio analysis used to assess any initial shortlist a portfolio assessment using scoring metrics from the most recent IRP or IRP Update that, at minimum, includes analysis of impacts upon near-term costs and community impacts, as described in OAR 860-090-0060.  However, an electric company that is described in ORS 469A.480, unless otherwise directed by the Commission, must include in the portfolio analysis used to assess any initial shortlist a portfolio assessment using scoring metrics from the most recent IRP that, at minimum, includes analysis of impacts upon near-term costs, as described in OAR 860-090-0060. 

 (6) The electric company must notify the IE and Commission Staff of its final shortlist selection in advance of filing a request for acknowledgment under OAR 860-089-0500 and provide supporting analysis, allowing sufficient time for the IE to complete the IE’s closing report.  The electric company must, upon request, promptly provide the IE with any additional information the IE finds necessary for the preparation of the IE’s closing report. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 756.060 & ORS 469A.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469A.075 & ORS 756.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 2-2026, adopt filed 03/23/2026, effective 03/23/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
