



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-0750 
 Suspension and Expulsion Prevention 
 
 (1) A certified ONB program must develop and implement a suspension and expulsion prevention policy. The purpose of the suspension and expulsion prevention policy is to ensure that young children are supported to remain in care.  
(2) The suspension and expulsion prevention policy must:   
(a) Be consistent with the certified ONB program’s Behavior and Guidance policy (OAR 414-320-0700);  
(b) Identify existing certified ONB program supports or tools that may be accessed;  
(c) Identify when and how classroom staff must seek support when challenges related to the care of children arise, including:  
(A) When and in what circumstances classroom staff must seek support;  
(B) How the director or designated certified ONB program personnel will respond to requests for support from classroom staff; and  
(C) What internal certified ONB program supports will be made available to the classroom staff.  
(d) Identify how the certified ONB program will determine if additional supports are needed for a child;  
(e) Identify when the certified ONB program will request services from Every Child Belongs (ECB); and  
(f) Include the method that the certified ONB program will use to notify a family of concerns related to a child’s behavior, such as written notification or an in-person conference. 
(3) When a young child is facing potential expulsion, as defined in these rules, a certified ONB program must:  
(a) Document the challenging behaviors and any known triggers (for example: specific activities, times of day, transitions);  
(b) Document what strategies and supports the certified ONB program has used to support the child and their effectiveness;  
(c) Request services from Every Child Belongs (ECB); and  
(d) Simultaneously with the request for services from ECB, notify the child’s family regarding the behavior concerns to:   
(A) Begin to collaboratively problem-solve to identify potential strategies and supports for the child; and    
(B) Establish frequency and method of ongoing communication with the family.  
(4) If the certified ONB program is unable to connect with the child’s family, as outlined in OAR 414-305-0750(3)(d), the center must attempt alternative methods of communication and document those attempts.  
(5) A certified ONB program may implement a temporary safety-based intervention if a child’s behavior creates a serious safety threat, as defined by these rules.  
(6) A certified ONB program may only use a temporary safety-based intervention if:  
(a) There is behavior that meets the definition of serious safety threat. The certified ONB program must document the behavior; and  
(b) The certified ONB program has attempted to address the behavior through strategies outlined in their behavior and guidance policy (OAR 414-320-0700), strategies suggested by the family, and any recommendations from professionals previously consulted about the child.  
(7) If a certified ONB program initiates a temporary safety-based intervention, the ONB program must:  
(a) Notify the family or other emergency contact immediately; 
(b) Contact ECB immediately to request services, if not already done; and 
(c) Notify CCLD of the temporary safety-based intervention and its expected duration by 5:00pm the next business day.   
(8) The length of a temporary safety-based intervention may only be for the time necessary to incorporate supports to reduce the occurrence of the behavior.  The temporary safety-based intervention must end as soon as safety can be maintained with supports in place.   
(9) The certified ONB program must document the basis for the duration of the temporary safety-based intervention.  
(10) During the temporary safety-based intervention, the certified ONB program must communicate with the family regarding:   
(a) Updates on access to supports;  
(b) Any changes to the child’s behaviors while not in care; and  
(c) Timeline to return to care.   
(11) If requested by CCLD, a certified ONB program must update CCLD if the expected duration of the temporary safety-based intervention changes. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.600 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 9-2026, adopt filed 06/29/2026, effective 09/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
