



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 900 EARLY LEARNING HUBS 
 414-900-0100 
 Backbone Entity Structure 
 
 (1) A backbone entity is an entity that provides operational and fiscal support to the regional Early Learning Hub. In its current operations, a backbone entity must be demonstrably committed to supporting young children and families. A Hub that has provided a stable organizational and operational structure under agreements with and to the satisfaction of the Department may submit an application for a Grant Agreement without a backbone entity. Both Hubs that provide their own operational and fiscal support without a backbone entity, and Hubs that use a backbone entity to provide operational and fiscal support, must: 

 (a) Provide fiscal and operational management to ensure accountability and compliance with Department standards as outlined in the Grant Agreement. 

 (b) Maintain financial systems that meet state and federal auditing standards. 

 (c) Ensure that the Governance Council has access to financial reports necessary to make decisions 

 (d) Conduct timely execution of fiscal documents needed to disburse funds. 

 (e) Maintain transparency in all processes, including grantmaking and contracting, for any investment from the Department distributed to the entity for the operation and administration of the Hub. 

 (f) A Backbone entity must be able to fiscally support its own core operations to carry out its own mission and functions without funding provided by DELC. 

 (g) Adhere to a “not to exceed” amount for administrative overhead costs set by the Department. 

 (h) Provide support for Hub functions for the full geographic region of the Hub including the identified priority population(s)s, even if not the same as the backbone entity’s general or usual service region. 

 (i) Establish and enforce conflict-of-interest policies for all staff, community partners, and any sub-grantees designed to prevent undue influence in funding or operational decisions. 

 (3) Backbone Entities may make use of Department funds for staffing; however, such funding must be proportional to the funded staff’s work on Hub functions and priorities. The Department will review and must approve funding models that divide staffing costs between Hub administration and other functions. 

 (4) If the Department determines that the Grant Agreement with the backbone entity will be terminated, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, it will issue a competitive Request for Application (RFA) within the affected Hub region. All applicants must fulfill the requirements of ORS 417.827 and other terms as outlined in the published Request for Application. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 417.728 & ORS 417.827 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 417.728 & ORS 417.827 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 6-2025, adopt filed 06/25/2025, effective 10/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
