



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 50 SCHOOL IMMUNIZATION RULES 
 333-050-0340 
 Vaccine Shortages 
 
 (1) A child shall not be excluded from a children’s facility or school for failing to receive a required vaccine if the State Public Health Officer has determined that there is a vaccine shortage under ORS 433.040 and that is the reason the child has not received the vaccine. Any vaccine, a requirement for which has been waived due to a vaccine shortage, will be required at the next review cycle, once the shortage has been lifted. The Public Health Division shall notify local health departments, schools and facilities of any shortages that affect their procedures under these rules. 

 (2) During a local vaccine shortage, a local public health officer, after consultation with the Public Health Division, may allow a child to attend a school or facility without meeting the minimum immunization requirements in case of temporary local vaccine shortage. 

 (a) The local health department shall provide a letter signed by the local health officer to the parent of any student whose vaccination requirement has been waived, detailing which vaccines are being waived for the student. The letter must state that the student will receive an exclusion order if the student's record is not updated with the missing doses prior to the next exclusion cycle, unless the vaccine shortage continues. 

 (b) A copy of the letter must also be provided to the children’s facility or school and the administrator must include it with the child’s immunization records on file at the school or facility. 

 (3) A student shall not be excluded from a post-secondary or community college institution for failing to receive a required vaccine if the State Public Health Officer has determined that there is a vaccine shortage and that is the reason the student has not received the vaccine. Any vaccine, the requirement for which has been waived due to a vaccine shortage, will be required at the next term or semester, once the shortage has been lifted. 

 (4) The local public health officer, after consultation with the Public Health Division, may allow a student to attend an educational institution without meeting the minimum immunization requirements in case of temporary local vaccine shortage. 

 (a) The local health department shall provide a letter signed by the local health officer to the affected student stating that the vaccine requirement is being postponed. The letter must give guidance to the post-secondary institution about when vaccine is expected to be available. 

 (b) A photocopied form letter signed by the local health officer may be used by the local health department when the shortage is expected to affect more than one student. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 433.004 & ORS 433.273 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 433.001, ORS 433.004, ORS 433.006 & ORS 433.235 - 433.284 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 11-2025, adopt filed 05/02/2025, effective 05/02/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
