



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Criminal Justice Commission 
 Chapter 213 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 30 THE IMPROVING PEOPLE'S ACCESS TO COMMUNITY-BASED TREATMENT, SUPPORTS, AND SERVICES (IMPACTS) PROGRAM 
 213-030-0041 
 Grant Applications 
 
 (1) The grant application cycle will be determined by the grant review committee.   

 (2) The grant review committee shall designate a percentage of the funds to be set aside and awarded to at least one federally recognized tribe.   

 (3) Applicants for IMPACTS funds must include the following in their applications:  

 (a) Letters of support and commitments from community leaders or organizations that are not members of the local public safety coordinating council, including but not limited to:   

 (A) Agencies working with homeless individuals;   

 (B) Behavioral health care providers;   

 (C) Coordinated care organizations; and   

 (D) Local hospitals.   

 (b) A report of the input from the local federally recognized Indian tribe(s) and, to the extent feasible, an explanation of how the input was incorporated into the design of the program, supports and services.   

 (c) An agreement to screen all participants receiving supports and services funded by the grants for potential eligibility for medical assistance and to assist eligible participants to apply for medical assistance, including an agreement for a process for sharing data and protecting the confidentiality of program participants.   

 (d) A process for program partners, participating jails and hospitals to:   

 (A) Provide information upon admission or at intake about the potential risks and benefits of tribal notification; and   

 (B) Offer tribal members the opportunity to disclose their statuses and situations to the federally recognized Indian tribe of their choosing.  

 (4) Applications from counties must be submitted by the local public safety coordinating council. Applications from federally recognized tribes must be submitted by the tribal government. Applications from regional consortia may be submitted by either the local public safety coordinating council or the tribal government of the applicant's choosing.   

 (5) If the local county commission requires county agencies to seek and receive county commission approval prior to applying for grant award funding, counties awarded funding must submit proof of county commission approval prior to receiving a first disbursement of funds.  

 (6) If a tribal government requires tribal government agencies to seek and receive tribal government approval prior to applying for grant award funding, federally recognized tribes awarded funding must submit proof of tribal government approval prior to receiving a first disbursement of funds.  

 (7) The grant review committee shall make award decisions based on the grant application review criteria provided in the "Grant Application Review Criteria" section of these rules.   

 (8) The grant review committee staff may communicate directly with an applicant to clarify the intent of an application's contents or to recommend modifications in furtherance of the purpose of the IMPACTS program.  

 (9) The grant review committee may, in its sole discretion, waive solicitation requirements or cancel any solicitation requirement in whole or in part if it deems such action to be in the best interests of the IMPACTS program.  

 (10) Within 75 days following the expiration of the grant application deadline, the grant review committee shall make award notifications to grantees. If there are extenuating circumstances, the grant review committee may, in its sole discretion, extend the deadline for award notification.  

 (11) If unallocated funds remain at the conclusion of the grant acceptance period, the grant review committee shall distribute all remaining funds in accordance with the "Supplemental Grant Period" section of these rules.  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  SB 973 (2019) & Or Laws 2019, ch 563, § 1-14 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  SB 973 (2019) & Or Laws 2019, ch 563, § 1-14 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CJC 1-2021, adopt filed 09/15/2021, effective 09/15/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
