



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Revenue 
 Chapter 150 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 323 CIGARETTE TAXES 
 150-323-0510 
 Tobacco Products and Inhalant Delivery System Retail Licensure: Premises Requiring License 
 
 (1) Definitions 

 (a) The definitions in Oregon Laws 2021, chapter 586, section 1, and OAR 150-323-0500 apply to the terms used in this rule, in addition to the following definitions. 

 (b) “Unique Address” means the physical location of the premises where tobacco products or inhalant delivery systems are sold and may be designated by a street number and name, unit, rural route number, or other designation as recognized by the United States Postal Office. 

 (c) “Business” means a person engaging in the retail sale of tobacco products or inhalant delivery systems, or partnership, joint stock company, unincorporated association or society, or municipal or other corporation of any character whatsoever. 

 (d) “Premises” means the real property, as designated by a unique address, on which a business that makes retail sales of tobacco products or inhalant delivery systems is located. 

 (2) Tobacco Retail License Required 

 (a) A retailer must apply for a separate tobacco retail license for each premises where tobacco products or inhalant delivery systems are sold by that retailer. 

 (b) If more than one business that engages in the retail sale of tobacco products or inhalant delivery systems is located at a shared premises each business must apply for a separate tobacco retail license. 

 (3) Tobacco Retail License Location Fixed and Permanent. A retailer may not sell tobacco products or inhalant delivery systems from a premises other than the premises listed on the application for the tobacco retail license.  A retailer may not transfer a retail tobacco license from one premises to another premises or to another retailer. 

 (4) Tobacco Retail License Display. A retailer must display the tobacco retail license conspicuously in a location and in such a fashion that the tobacco retail license can be seen from an area accessible by the public. 

 (5) Suspension or Other Notice 

 (a) A retailer that receives a warning notice, a notice of sales restriction, a notice of license suspension, or any other notice from the department shall post such notice conspicuously in a location and in such a fashion that the notice can be seen from an area accessible by the public. 

 (b) A retailer must stop selling tobacco products during the period that the retailer’s tobacco retail license is suspended or otherwise restricted by the department. A retailer must remove all tobacco products and inhalant delivery systems from view of the public during such time as the retailer’s tobacco retail license is suspended or otherwise restricted by the department, if the license suspension or other restriction exceeds a period of 14 days. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 305.100 & Chapter 586, 2021 Oregon Laws Section 5 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Chapter 586, 2021 Oregon Laws Section 5; Section 6 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REV 14-2021, adopt filed 11/23/2021, effective 12/01/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
