



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-0810 
 Utilities 
 
 (1) A certified ONB program must ensure that children do not have access to heating equipment such as furnaces, fireplaces, stoves, floor and wall furnace grates, steam and hot water pipes, electric space heaters, gas heaters, or cooling equipment such as, air conditioner compressors, and fans. 
(2) A certified ONB program's heating equipment must be safe to operate. 
(a) Flammable materials including papers, curtains, and furniture must be at least 3 feet from furnaces, fireplaces, or other heating devices, unless manufacture’s specifications require a greater distance. 
(b) Heating units that involve flame must be vented properly and supplied with a source of combustion air that meets the manufacturer’s installation requirements. 
(c) Portable electric and gas space heaters must: 
(A) Be attended while in use and be off when unattended; 
(B) Have an automatic shut off feature for tipping over and overheating 
(C) Have protective covering to keep hands and objects away from the electric heating element; 
(D) Bear the safety certification mark of a nationally recognized testing laboratory; 
(E) Be placed only on the floor;  
(F) Be properly vented, as required for proper functioning; and  
(G) Be used according to the manufacturer’s instructions. 
(d) Fireplaces, fireplace inserts, and wood/corn pellet stoves, if used, must: 
(A) Have a secure, stable protective safety screen; 
(B) Be installed in accordance with the local or regional building code and the manufacturer’s installation instructions; and  
(C) Be inspected and cleaned annually. 
(3) A certified ONB program’s electrical system must not pose a risk to children. 
(a) Unused electrical outlets accessible to preschool-age children must be tamper-resistant or have outlet covers that are not easily removed by children.  
(b) Electrical wiring and power strips with surge protectors must be inaccessible to children. 
(c) Electrical cords must be in good working condition, not torn or frayed, and not have any exposed wires.  
(d) Extension cords may only be used for a brief, temporary purpose and must not replace direct wiring. 
(e) Electrical products plugged into an outlet near a water source such as a sink, water table, or swimming pool, must use a special outlet called a ground fault circuit interrupter (GFCI). 
(4) Except for certified ONB programs that operate on public park land or operate on public school premises, a certified ONB program must comply with all light fixture manufacturers' installation and use requirements, and must ensure compliance with the following requirements: 
(a) Light fixtures must have shatter-resistant light bulbs, covers, or both; 
(b) Lights or light fixtures used indoors must be designed for indoor use only; 
(c) Lights or light fixtures used outdoors must be designed for outdoor use only; 
(d) Free standing lamps must be attached or secured to prevent tipping; and 
(e) Halogen lamps and bulbs are prohibited. 
(5) A certified ONB program must not use carpet in food preparation areas or restrooms. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
