



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Administrative Services 
 Chapter 125 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 90 PARKING FACILITIES 
 125-090-0105 
 Priority of Assignment; Reassignment; Waiting Lists 
 
 (1) DAS finds that there is more demand for Motor Vehicle Parking than spaces available in Parking Facilities. DAS shall reasonably attempt to observe the ascending order of Applicant priority in Section (2) for assigning vacant monthly Motor Vehicle Parking spaces in Parking Facilities. The Manager may, in the Manager’s sole discretion determine whether or not a Parking space is vacant or available for assignment under this rule. 

 (2) The priority of assignment, in order of highest to lowest priority, is as follows; 

 (a) Priority 10: State Employees with a Disability (see OAR 125-090-0095). P10 designation are not transferable to non-ADA placard holders for the purposes of Carpooling. 

 (b) Priority 9: State-owned Motor Vehicle that receives daily or frequent use or is regularly used by volunteers or field office personnel. Except as authorized by OAR 125-080-0075 or otherwise authorized by DAS, Agencies may not allow State Employees to use a State Agency paid space when the State Motor Vehicle is removed from the State Agency paid space. 

 (c) Priority 8: State Employees whose State Agency certifies that the State Employee must have their personal Motor Vehicle at the work site (only at the request of the Director of the State Agency and with the approval of the Manager). The Director’s request must clearly demonstrate why having the State Employee’s personal Motor Vehicle Parked at or in near proximity to the State Employee’s Work Location is vital to the successful completion of their State duties and the mission of the State Agency. P8 designation are not transferable with State Agency changes and are subject to reevaluation. 

 (d) Priority 7: A State Employee who: 

 (A) Requests to return to a Parking assignment after leaving the assignment to use Alternative Transportation Modes for a maximum of a three-month test period. After three months absence, priority “7” status is removed; 

 (B) Is currently Parking in a Parking Facility and has moved to another Work Location within the Capitol Mall Parking Area, the Eugene State Office Building or the Portland State Office Building; 

 (C) Is currently Parking in a Parking Facility and has transferred from one State Agency to another within the Capitol Mall Parking Area, the Eugene State Office Building or the Portland State Office Building; 

 (D) Returns from leave from DAS authorized Parking within less than one year (or within the period of active service plus 30 days if absent from State employment more than a year by reasons of service in the uniformed services as defined in the USERRA (38 U.S.C. 4301-4333). For purposes of this rule, a State Employee on approved leave without pay from State employment for one or more pay periods is on leave from DAS authorized Parking until returned to the State payroll system; 

 (E) Returns from a job rotation or temporary assignment of less than one year from outside the Capitol Mall Parking Area, the Eugene State Office Building or the Portland State Office Building 

 (F) Is currently Parking in a Parking Facility and asks for reassignment to a reserved space within the same Parking Facility. This does not apply to Motorcycle Permits; a State Employee may not obtain a Permit to Park a Motorcycle and then request a Priority 7 to Park a car, truck, SUV, etc. in a standard Parking space. 

 (G) Is returning to a seasonal work assignment and had a DAS space during their seasonal assignment the previous year. This priority is good only for consecutive years of seasonal assignments; skipping a year means the individual must begin the wait list process again. 

 (e) Priority 6: Carpool vehicles - Primary Participant with three or more other Members. 

 (f) Priority 5: Carpool vehicles - Primary Participant with two other Members. 

 (g) Priority 4: A State Employee with an Electric Vehicle and the Electric Vehicle requires access to an outlet or other vehicle charging infrastructure to replenish the batteries of the Electric Vehicle while at the Parking Facility. State Employees shall be subject to additional fees for accessing electricity and Electric Vehicle charging infrastructure. State Employees who received their assignment based on an Electric Vehicle status must maintain the additional Electric Vehicle charge for electricity; must drive an Electric Vehicle at least 75% of the State Employee’s work week; and actively use the EV charger at least 50% of the time, or the space will be cancelled, and the State Employee placed back on the wait list under the appropriate priority status; 

 (h) Priority 3: Carpool vehicles — Primary Participant with one other Member. 

 (i) Priority 2: Single driver - State Employee 

 (j) Priority 1: A contractor engaged by a State Agency to perform work on the State Agency’s behalf for a period of one month or more. 

 (3) DAS may maintain a waiting list for persons interested in Parking at a Parking Facility and at a particular reserved space within a Parking Facility. When making a Parking assignment, DAS will consider the priority level of the Applicant and Applicant’s position on the waiting list based on the date of the request. DAS may limit the number of waiting list positions that one person may hold simultaneously. 

 (4) DAS has the exclusive authority to assign and reassign use of space in Parking Facilities. DAS reserves the right to limit the use of a Parking Facility at or near a State Agency office to the Parking needs of the nearby State Agency and the State Agency’s employees. 

 (5) The Manager may temporarily or permanently reassign reserved spaces, at any time upon notice to Permit holder, when the Manager determines reassignment is in the best interest of the State. Reassignment may include a different space or a different Parking Facility. 

 (6) The Manager may temporarily or permanently reassign reserved spaces or designate special Parking spaces through hooding of meters or other means to implement safe Parking for State Employees who are endangered through domestic violence or other credible threats. Requests for this accommodation must be made through and verified as a credible threat by the human resources or personnel department of the State Agency where the State Employee resides. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 98.805-98.818, 184.340, 276.591-276.601 & 283.100 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 98.805, 276.591, 276.594 & 276.601 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DAS 1-2025, adopt filed 04/14/2025, effective 04/15/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
