



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 30 STANDARDS FOR APPROVED RECOVERY SCHOOLS 
 581-030-5000 
 Termination or Closure of an Approved Recovery School 
 
 (1) During the term of an approved recovery school agreement, the Oregon Department of Education may terminate the agreement on any of the following grounds: 

 (a) Failure to comply with state and federal laws. 

 (b) Failure to comply with the agreement to operate as an approved recovery school. 

 (c) Failure to obtain and maintain accreditation status by a nationally recognized recovery organization by the fifth year of operation. 

 (d) Failure to maintain financial stability. 

 (e) Failure to maintain a financial system that complies with Section 6 of this chapter. 

 (2)(a) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, the Oregon Department of Education may terminate an agreement immediately and close an approved recovery school if the school is endangering the health or safety of the students enrolled in the approved recovery school. 

 (b) The approved recovery school may request a hearing from the Department of Education on the termination of the approved recovery school under this subsection. The Department of Education shall hold a hearing within 10 days after receiving the request. 

 (3) Termination of an approved recovery school shall not abridge the ESD, school district, or public charter school from operating a public school or program that is not an approved recovery school. 

 (4) If an approved recovery school is terminated or closed, the student education records of the approved recovery school shall be transferred to: 

 (a) For an approved recovery school that was operated by an ESD, to the administrative office of the ESD; 

 (b) For an approved recovery school that was operated by a school district, to the administrative office of the school district; or 

 (c) For an approved recovery school that was operated by a public charter school, to the administrative office of the school district in which the public charter school was located. 

 (5) An ESD, school district, or public charter school may only terminate or close an operating approved recovery school at the end of a semester or trimester. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 336.680 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 336.680 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 52-2024, adopt filed 10/25/2024, effective 10/25/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
