



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 223 REGIONAL HAZE RULES 
 340-223-0120 
 Four Factor Analysis 
 
 (1) A four factor analysis is an emissions control analysis that shall include: 

 (a) All emissions units for the source; and 

 (b) Information sufficient to determine, at each emissions unit: 

 (A) The costs of any and all controls that could be used to reduce round II regional haze pollutants, including an estimate of the cost per ton of each round II regional haze pollutant reduced and all control technologies in use by similar emission units, either at that source or at other sources or locations; 

 (B) How soon the source believes it would be practicable to install to install controls identified under paragraph (A); 

 (C) The energy and non-air quality environmental impacts of installing controls identified under paragraph (A); and 

 (D) The remaining useful life of each emissions unit. 

 (2) If DEQ determines that the four factor analysis is inaccurate, inadequate, or insufficient, DEQ may request in writing additional information from the source and may adjust the four factor analysis based on any information submitted or may adjust the four factor analysis based on other information DEQ determines to be accurate, adequate, and sufficient. DEQ shall place any information submitted or relied on under this subsection into its record. 

 (3) DEQ may adjust information in the four factor analysis to assist DEQ in conducting a consistent review of submittals. DEQ shall place any information relied on under this subsection into its record. 

 (4) DEQ shall review the four factor analysis and any additional information that DEQ has placed in the agency record under subsections (2) and (3) to determine which controls, if any, would be cost effective to reduce round II regional haze pollutants for each emissions unit at a source and to determine what is the fastest practicable timeline for installation of the identified controls. In no event shall the timeline determined to be practicable be later than July 31, 2026. 

 (a) A control is cost effective if DEQ determines that the control will result in a cost of $10,000 or less per ton of reductions for any single or combination of round II regional haze pollutants. 

 (b) If multiple controls are cost effective at an emissions unit, DEQ shall identify as cost effective the control that will result in the greatest emissions reduction at the emissions unit. 

 [NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040.] 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468 & 468A 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468A.025 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 14-2021, adopt filed 07/26/2021, effective 07/26/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
