



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 247 HEALTH RISK-BASED AIR QUALITY STANDARDS FOR TOXIC AIR CONTAMINANTS 
 340-247-0050 
 Air Toxics Science Advisory Committee 
 
 (1) Purpose. The Commission recognizes the many scientific uncertainties associated with the effects of toxic air contaminants, and the continuing development of new information in this field. An Air Toxics Science Advisory Committee (ATSAC), will advise DEQ, on the development of TRVs to be recommended to the Commission for use in the state’s toxic air contaminant program. The ATSAC will review and provide feedback on TRVs proposed by DEQ. 

 (2) Staffing. Personnel from both the DEQ and OHA will coordinate the work of ATSAC. 

 (3) Membership. The ATSAC will be composed of highly qualified members with experience relevant to the development and review of toxicity reference values. There will be at least five but no more than seven members. DEQ will evaluate qualifications of each ATSAC member and the capacity of the committee as a whole by seeking skills and experience relevant to: 

 (a) Toxicology and/or Toxicity Assessment, with additional consideration for experts with specialization in: 

 (A) Inhalation toxicology; 

 (B) Reproductive toxicology; or 

 (C) Developmental toxicology; 

 (b) Environmental and/or Atmospheric Chemistry, with additional consideration for experts with specialization in: 

 (A) Multi-pathway exposure; 

 (B) Bioaccumulation; and 

 (c) Epidemiology/Biostatistics, with additional consideration for experts with specialization in: 

 (A) Environmental public health; 

 (B) Neonatal and children’s health; 

 (C) Medicine, or 

 (D) Health of vulnerable populations. 

 (4) Appointment. DEQ's Air Quality Division Administrator will nominate potential members to the Director. Before making these nominations, the Administrator will develop a list of candidates by consulting with government, public, and private organizations involved in work relevant to toxic air contaminants. The Director will appoint ATSAC members with concurrence by the Commission. 

 (5) Term. Air Toxics Science Advisory Committee members each will serve a three-year term. Initial terms will be staggered for continuity and transfer of work so that members of the first ATSAC may serve more or less than three years. 

 (6) Operation. 

 (a) No member may have an actual or potential conflict of interest, as those terms are defined by ORS 244.020 and must otherwise comply with government ethics requirements in ORS chapter 244. 

 (b) The ATSAC will meet as determined necessary by DEQ. 

 (c) The ATSAC members will provide DEQ with findings and recommendations that DEQ will report to the Environmental Quality Commission, including consensus, majority, and minority opinions. 

 (d) If necessary, DEQ may obtain a facilitator to assist the ATSAC. 

 (e) ATSAC may remove a member for cause, with concurrence by the Commission. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.035, 468A.010(1), ORS 468A.015 & 468A.135 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468A.015 & 468A.025 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 18-2021, adopt filed 11/17/2021, effective 11/17/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
