



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 CITY GENERAL RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE 
 166-200-0485 
 Property and Facilities Management Records 
 
 (1) Asset, Equipment, and Property Records: Series documents property and equipment owned and/or maintained by a city. Records may include manuals and specifications, service and repair records, work orders, damaged or stolen asset records, asset disposition records, risk reports, real property reports, transfer reports, money and negotiable securities reports, general risk surveys, lease agreements, and warranties. SEE ALSO: Real Property Transaction Records; and Vehicle Maintenance and Repair Records. Minimum retention: (a) Equipment maintenance records, 1 year after equipment disposed of; (b) All other records, 4 years. 

 (2) Asset Inventory Records : Series documents the capitalized and expendable assets of a city. Examples of capitalized assets may include buildings, real estate, infrastructure assets, vehicles, equipment, furniture, and information technology. Examples of expendable assets include office supplies and other small office purchases. Minimum retention: (a) Records of capitalized assets, 3 years after disposal or replacement of asset; (b) Records of expendable assets, 3 years. 

 (3) Cemetery Records: Series documents the administration and management of city-owned cemeteries. Records may include lists of names and maps of grave locations, deeds, documentation of purchasing lots and burials, death certificates, State Mortuary and Cemetery Board licensing and reporting records, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (4) Chemical Application Records: Series documents the use of pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers on city property. Minimum retention: 3 years after application. 

 (5) Chemical Inventories: Series documents chemicals in use by a city for purposes of maintaining safety standards (29 CFR 1910). SEE ALSO: Master Material Safety Data Records. Minimum retention: 30 years. 

 (6) Equipment Calibration Records: Series documents the calibration of equipment and instruments used to undertake and monitor technical operations. Records may include logs, reports, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Life of equipment. 

 (7) Equipment Tracking Records: Series documents the issue of equipment to city personnel. Records may include inventories and tracking sheets. SEE ALSO: Weapons Inventory Records. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (8) Facilities and Grounds Inspection Records: Series documents periodic inspection of facilities and grounds to check for damage and recommend repairs and maintenance. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (9) Facilities and Grounds Maintenance and Repair Records: Series documents routine maintenance, repairs, and access to buildings and grounds owned or leased by the city. Records may include maintenance requests, summaries, logs, reports, and similar records usually compiled from daily work records on a monthly or quarterly basis. SEE ALSO: Activity Reports; and City Improvement Administrative and Financial Records. Minimum retention: (a) Records requiring engineering stamps, 2 years after life of structure; (b) All other records, 2 years. 

 (10) Fleet Vehicle Title and Registration Records: Series documents the ownership and registration of all city vehicles (including unmanned aircraft systems). Minimum retention: (a) Titles, until vehicle is sold or disposed of; (b) Registration records, until superseded or disposition of vehicle. 

 (11) Fuel Records: Series documents the amount of gasoline, diesel, and oil used by city-owned vehicles. Records may include logs, reports, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (12) Grass and Weed Control Records: Series documents the city’s work to prevent fires caused by overgrown vegetation. Records may include complaints, inspection reports, notices, violations, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 3 years after last action or final payment. 

 (13) Hazard Analysis Records: Series documents potential natural and man-made hazards in the city. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) requires documentation for federally funded Emergency Management Assistance jurisdictions. Records may include federal forms and related documentation. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (14) Hazard Shelter Records: Series documents the condition of buildings designated to be used as hazard shelters in case of emergency. Records may include documents issued by federal and state emergency management agencies, sketches, photographs, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (15) Hazardous Material Emergency Incident Records: Series documents city response to hazardous material emergencies. Records may include reports, complaints, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (16) Master Material Safety Data Records: Series documents all hazardous chemicals used and held by a city. Records may include hazardous materials safety sheets, safety instructions, and emergency instructions. Minimum retention: Until superseded or chemical no longer in use. 

 (17) Regulated Substances Storage and Use Records: Series documents the storage and use of regulated substances such as gasoline, crude oil, fuel oil, and diesel oil in the city. Records may include applications, permits, inspection reports, and related records for city regulation of above ground storage tanks as well as reports of substance releases from underground storage tanks. SEE ALSO: Inspection and Occupancy Records. Minimum retention: (a) Records related to underground storage tanks, 25 years after tank removed; (b) Records related to above ground storage tanks, 5 years. 

 (18) Technical Manuals, Specifications, and Warranties: Series documents technical details of city-owned vehicles and equipment. Records may include specifications, operating instructions, and safety information. Minimum retention: (a) Manuals, until disposition of vehicle or equipment; (b) Warranties, until expiration. 

 (19) Vehicle Maintenance and Repair Records: Series documents the maintenance and repair history of all city-owned vehicles. Records may include usage logs, reports, summaries, and similar records usually compiled from daily work records on a monthly or quarterly basis. Minimum retention: (a) Daily vehicle inspection and usage records, 3 years; (b) All other records, 2 years after disposition of vehicle. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192.005 - 192.170 & ORS 192.005 - 192.170 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005 - 192.170 & ORS 192.005 - 192.170 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-2025, adopt filed 07/03/2025, effective 07/03/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
