



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 210 REGISTERED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-210-0630 
 Safe Sleep 
 
 (1)    In addition to safe equipment (OAR 414-210-0620), a provider must follow safe sleep practices for infants to reduce the risk of sudden unexpected infant death (SUID) as follows: 
(a)    While sleeping, infants must be monitored frequently to ensure they are breathing, not overheated, not in distress, and do not need assistance. 
(b)    Infants must be placed on their backs on a flat, firm, non-inclined surface for sleeping. 
(c)    Infants who can roll from back-to-front or back-to-side may remain in the sleep position they assume. 
(d)    Except for a plain pacifier, there must not be any items (e.g., pacifier clips, bottles, toys, pillows, stuffed animals, blankets, bumpers) in or attached to the crib, portable crib or play yard. 
(e)    Infants must not have their heads or faces covered by items such as blankets or linens at any time. 
(f)    There must not be any items (e.g. blankets, tents, sheets) placed over the top or on the sides of a crib, portable crib or play yard. 
(g)    Items that may cause suffocation or strangulation such as headwear (e.g. hoods, hats, headbands), bibs, necklaces, and garments with ties or drawstrings must be removed from the infant and sleep equipment prior to laying an infant down to rest. 
(h)    Swaddling or other clothing or covering that restricts the infant's arm or leg movement is prohibited at all times, even if the child is not sleeping. 
(i)    Weighted blankets, weighted clothing, or other weighted objects must not be placed on or near the sleeping infant. 
(j)    If the caregiver is engaged in an activity with child care children and is carrying a sleeping infant in a structured infant carrier, the caregiver must move the infant to a safe sleep surface as soon as the activity is finished. 
(k)    A caregiver may hold a sleeping infant provided the caregiver can immediately observe, see, or feel any signs of distress. The caregiver must be awake, alert, and focused on the infant; and 
(l)    If an infant arrives asleep in a car seat or falls asleep in a place other than their crib, portable crib or play yard, the caregiver must immediately move the infant to an appropriate sleep surface. 
(2)    Alternative sleep positions may only be used with an CCLD approved exception request, which must include a medical reason and instructions from a physician. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.330 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 140-2024, adopt filed 12/11/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
