



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 82 LAND USE ORDINANCE 
 350-082-0590 
 Variances 
 
 (1) In the GMA, when setbacks or buffers specified in the guidelines for the protection of scenic, cultural, natural, recreation, agricultural, or forestry resources overlap or conflict, the setbacks or buffers may be varied upon a demonstration of compliance with both of the following guidelines: 
(a) A setback or buffer specified in this land use ordinance to protect one resource would cause the proposed use to fall within a setback or buffer specified in the plan to protect another resource. 
(b) Variation from the specified setbacks or buffer would, on balance, best achieve the protection of the affected resources. 
(2) In the GMA, a setback or buffer specified in the guidelines for protection of scenic, cultural, natural, recreation, agricultural, or forestry resources may be varied to allow a residence to be built on a parcel of land upon a demonstration of compliance with all the following guidelines: 
(a) The land use designation otherwise authorizes a residence on the tract. 
(b) No site exists on the tract (all contiguous parcels under the same ownership) on which a residence could practicably be placed in full compliance with the setback or buffer. 
(c) The variance from the specified setback or buffer is the minimum necessary to allow the residence. 
(d) The variance shall not be used to permit an addition to a building (including, but not limited to, decks and stairs), when the addition would be within the setback, except where the building is wholly within the setback, in which case, the addition may only be permitted on the portion of the building that does not encroach any further into the required setback. 
(3) Variances for Recreation Uses 
(a) In the GMA, the Executive Director may grant a variance to the setback and buffer requirements contained in 350-082-0700 upon a demonstration of compliance with all the following guidelines: 
(A) The proposed project is a public-use, resource-based recreation facility providing or supporting either recreational access to the Columbia River and its tributaries, or recreational opportunities associated with a scenic travel corridor. 
(B) All reasonable measures to redesign the proposed project to comply with required setbacks and buffers have been explored, and application of those setbacks and buffers would prohibit a viable recreation use of the site as proposed. 
(C) Resource impacts have been mitigated to less than adverse levels through design provisions and mitigation measures. 
(D) The variance is the minimum necessary to accommodate the use. 
(b) In the GMA and SMA, the Executive Director may grant a variance of up to ten percent to the guidelines of Recreation Intensity Class 4 for parking and campground units upon demonstration of compliance with all the following guidelines: 
(A) Demand and use levels for the proposed activity or activities, particularly in the area where the site is proposed, are high and expected to remain so or increase. Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP) data and data from the National Visitor Use Monitoring Program shall be relied upon to meet this criterion in the absence of current applicable studies. 
(B) The proposed use is dependent on resources present at the site. 
(C) Reasonable alternative sites offering similar opportunities, including those in nearby urban areas, have been evaluated, and it has been demonstrated that the proposed use cannot be adequately accommodated elsewhere. 
(D) The proposed use is consistent with goals, objectives, and policies in Chapter 4, Part I of the Management Plan. 
(E) Through site design and mitigation measures, the proposed use can be implemented without adversely affecting scenic, natural, or cultural resources and adjacent land uses. 
(F) Through site design and mitigation measures, the proposed use can be implemented without affecting or modifying treaty rights. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015, 16 USC § 544e(c) & 16 USC § 544f(l) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015, 16 USC § 544e(c) & 16 USC § 544f(l) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2022, adopt filed 03/02/2022, effective 05/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
