



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Chapter 731 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 145 JURISDICTIONAL TRANSFERS 
 731-145-0020 
 Application Process 
 
 (1) A city or county may apply to the Jurisdictional Transfer Advisory Committee for inclusion on the list of jurisdictional transfers recommended for funding that is submitted to the Joint Committee on Transportation, in accordance with the requirements described in this rule, OAR 731-145-0020.   

 (2) Pre-Application: 

 (a) A city or county may submit a pre-application to the Committee through the ODOT staff person assigned to the Committee. 

 (b) A pre-application is used to determine eligibility of a city or county to apply to the Committee. 

 (c) To apply as a pre-applicant, a city or county must submit to the Committee the following: 

 (A) A letter or resolution indicating support for the jurisdictional transfer by the governing body of the city or county that proposes to be the receiving jurisdiction. 

 (B) A letter of support for the jurisdictional transfer by the ODOT Region Manager in which the highway is located. 

 (C) A completed pre-application form, available on the Jurisdictional Transfer Advisory Committee Website. 

 (d)The Committee will determine if the Applicant is eligible to apply and respond to the pre-application. 

 (3) Application: 

 (a) Upon receipt of approval of the pre-application, a city or county may submit an application to the Committee through the ODOT staff person assigned to the Committee. 

 (b) For the Committee to consider an application, in accordance with Or Laws 2023, chapter 323, section 1, the application must include, at a minimum, the following: 

 (A)  The name of the city or county; 

 (B) A description of the portion of the highway to be transferred; 

 (C)  A desired timeline for the transfer; 

 (D)  The scope of the transfer; 

 (E) A description of which body assumes liability during and after the transfer; 

 (F) The cost to update the segment of highway transferred to a state of good repair; 

 (G) Plans to provide at least 20 percent of the moneys required for the jurisdictional transfer; 

 (H) A community vision plan that describes the applicant’s plan for managing and improving the highway; and 

 (I) Any other information the city or county deem necessary or helpful to the Jurisdictional Transfer Advisory Committee in making its recommendations to the Joint Committee on Transportation. 

 (4)  Information on the Jurisdictional Transfer Advisory Committee and its schedule can be found on the ODOT website ( https://www.oregon.gov/odot/Get-Involved/Pages/Jurisdictional-Transfer-Comm.aspx ). 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS184.619 & Ch 323 OL 2023 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Ch 323 OL 2023 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 4-2024, adopt filed 08/06/2024, effective 08/06/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
