



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Business Development Department 
 Chapter 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 76 Rural Opportunity Initiative Grant Program 
 123-076-0040 
 Application Review 
 
 (1) Applications will be evaluated by a grant review committee consisting of Department staff. The committee may also include community partners or other outside advisors invited by the Department. The committee will provide the Department with funding recommendations based on criteria set forth in these rules and the RFGA. The Department retains all funding award authority. 

 (2) The committee will evaluate applications using an award rubric that results in a numeric rating for each of the following categories and any additional categories set out in the RFGA: 

 (a) Reasonableness of budget and justification and alignment of budget with proposed activities; 

 (b) Quality of Project goals and metrics to evaluate the Project’s success; 

 (c) Experience and capacity of Lead Applicant and key individuals involved in the proposed Project to facilitate Entrepreneurial Ecosystem building; and 

 (d) Evidence of stakeholder support. 

 (3) After the committee completes the evaluation process, applications may be prioritized based on the committee’s scoring and any other factors set forth in the RFGA to make award recommendations. 

 (4) The committee will make its recommendations to the Program manager for final award decisions. 

 (5) The Department will provide a notice of intent to award to Lead Applicants that are selected for an award. 

 (6) The notice of intent to award shall contain an offer of an amount for a grant and may contain conditions that the Recipient must satisfy prior to receiving a contract or grant funds. The Department may make an offer that is less than what was requested by the Lead Applicant. 

 (7) If a contract has not been fully executed by all parties with 30 days of Recipient receiving contract documents, the Department may rescind its notice of intent to award and reallocate Program funds. 

 (8) The Department will notify unsuccessful Lead Applicants. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 285A.227 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 285A.227 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 6-2025, adopt filed 06/25/2025, effective 06/25/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
