



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Higher Education Coordinating Commission 
 Chapter 715 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 25 Common Course Numbering and Credit Transfer 
 715-025-0200 
 TRANSFER SUCCESS MEASURES; INSTITUTIONAL REPORTING 
 
 (1) Each community college and public university listed in ORS 352.002 shall submit an annual report to the Higher Education Coordinating Commission that shall allow the Commission to evaluate the effectiveness and implementation of statewide transfer tools, including: 

 (a) Common Course Numbering (CCN); 

 (b) Core Transfer Maps (CTMs); and 

 (c) Major Transfer Maps (MTMs). 

 (2) For each required measure, institutions must provide data disaggregated by at least the following: 

 (a) Whether students completed CCN, CTM, or MTM pathways; and 

 (b) Individual student characteristics specified by the Commission. 

 (3) Reports shall include the following measures: 

 (a) Graduation Rate. Percentage of transfer students completing a bachelor’s degree, compared to first-time freshmen. 

 (b) Credits at Graduation. Number of earned credits at bachelor’s degree completion, for transfer students and first-time freshmen, disaggregated by major and other characteristics. 

 (c) Transfer Rate. The percentage of students who are new to a community college in fall term, who complete at least 18 collegiate credits within their first two years, for whom a plurality of credits are in lower-division collegiate coursework, and who subsequently transfer to an Oregon public university within four years of initial enrollment. 

 (d) Utilization Rate of Transfer Tools, including: 

 (A) The percentage of students earning an associate’s degree or transcript notation with the guarantees of an MTM, among all associate degree earners; 

 (B) The percentage of students who transfer with a CTM, among all students who transfer with 30–89 credits; including students with an MTM; and 

 (C) The percentage of students, as defined in subsection (c) of this rule, who complete at least one CCN course. 

 (e) Federal Loan Participation. Percentage of current undergraduates with federal loans. 

 (f) Average Debt of Bachelor’s Graduates. Average dollar amount of debt among students completing a bachelor’s degree. 

 (4) Each institution shall also provide information regarding the adoption and implementation of legislatively mandated transfer policies, including MTMs, CTMs, and CCN, including: 

 (a) Catalog listings, including confirmation that approved CCN courses are published in the institution’s annual catalog and schedule beginning with the catalog year following Transfer Council or Commission approval of the course; 

 (b) Confirmation that approved MTM programs are implemented with the rights and guarantees provided for in ORS 350.400 and OAR 715-025-0040. 

 (c) whether the institution scheduled or offered courses that are subject to an approved CCNAP but not listed with the required CCN designation in the catalog, and if so, whether such courses were offered solely as part of an approved teach-out plan; and 

 (d) Course removals, including whether a course similar in course description and course learning outcomes but that is not subject to a CCNAP remain listed or offered, and, if so, whether such offerings are limited to an approved teach-out plan as specified in 715-025-0100. 

 (5) Each institution shall also provide information regarding: 

 (a) Institutional support and resources for transfer, including faculty and staff training and advising tools; and 

 (b) Challenges and barriers to implementation of transfer policies. 

 (6) The Commission shall have final authority to resolve disputes regarding the interpretation or application of definitions in this rule. 

 (7) Institutions shall submit annual reports in the form specified by the Commission. 

 (8) The Commission may require institutions to report additional information related to transfer effectiveness, implementation, and student success as determined by the Commission. 

 (9) The Commission may make publicly assessable, in a manner compliant with relevant student data privacy laws, any elements of institutional reporting. 

 (10) Institutions shall submit their first reports under these rules to the Commission by September 1, 2026. 

 (11) The Commission shall compile and publish the first statewide transfer report based on these measures by December 15, 2026. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 350.395, ORS 350.423 & ORS 350.429 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 350.395, ORS 350.429 & ORS 350.412 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HECC 9-2025, adopt filed 12/12/2025, effective 12/12/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
