



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 77 BIRTHING CENTERS 
 333-077-0240 
 Informal Enforcement 
 
 (1) If, during an investigation or survey Oregon Health Authority (Authority) staff document violations of birthing center licensing laws, the Authority may issue a statement of deficiencies that cites the law alleged to have been violated and the facts supporting the allegation. 

 (2) Upon receipt of a statement of deficiencies, a birthing center shall be provided an opportunity to dispute the Authority's survey findings but must still comply with sections (3) and (4) of this rule. 

 (a) If a birthing center desires an informal conference to dispute the Authority's survey findings, the birthing center shall advise the Authority in writing within 10 business days after receipt of the statement of deficiencies. The written request must include a detailed explanation of why the birthing center believes the statement of deficiencies is incorrect. 

 (b) A birthing center may not seek a delay of any enforcement action against it on the grounds the informal dispute resolution has not been completed. 

 (c) If a birthing center is successful in demonstrating the deficiencies should not have been cited, the Authority shall reissue the statement of deficiencies, removing such deficiencies and rescinding or modifying any remedies issued for such deficiencies. The reissued statement of deficiencies shall state that it supersedes the previous statement of deficiencies and shall clearly identify the date of the superseded statement of deficiencies. 

 (3) A signed plan of correction must be received by the Authority within 10 business days from the date the statement of deficiencies was mailed to the birthing center. A signed plan of correction will not be used by the Authority as an admission of the violations alleged in the statement of deficiencies. 

 (4) A birthing center shall correct all deficiencies within 60 days from the date of the exit conference, unless an extension of time is requested and granted from the Authority. A request for such an extension shall be submitted in writing and must accompany the plan of correction. 

 (5) The Authority shall determine if a written plan of correction is acceptable. If the plan of correction is not acceptable to the Authority, the Authority shall notify the birthing center administrator or the administrator's designee in writing and request that the plan of correction be modified and resubmitted no later than 10 working days from the date the letter of non-acceptance was mailed to the administrator. 

 (6) If the birthing center does not come into compliance by the date of correction reflected on the plan of correction or 60 days from date of the exit conference, whichever is sooner, the Authority may propose to deny, suspend, or revoke the birthing center license, or impose civil penalties in accordance with ORS chapter 183. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 441.025 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 441.025, ORS 441.015 & ORS 441.030 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 23-2025, adopt filed 11/03/2025, effective 11/03/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
