



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Pharmacy 
 Chapter 855 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 141 PHARMACY PRESCRIPTION KIOSK 
 855-141-0550 
 Records: General Requirements 
 
 (1) The recordkeeping requirements OAR 855-141 are in addition to the requirements of other recordkeeping rules of the board. Unless otherwise specified, all records and documentation required by these rules, must be retained for three years and made available to the board for inspection upon request. Records must be stored onsite for at least one year and may be stored, after one year, in a secured off-site location if retrievable within three business days. Records and documentation may be written, electronic or a combination of the two. 

 (2) All required records for the PPK must be maintained by the PPK Affiliated Pharmacy. 

 (3) Records retained by the PPK Affiliated Pharmacy must include, but are not limited to: 

 (a) Date, time and identification of each individual and activity or function performed via the PPK; 

 (b) Pharmacist physical inspection of the PPK; 

 (c) Telepharmacy system testing; 

 (d) Licensee training on the proper use of the PPK;  

 (e) Still image capture and store and forward images must be retained according to (1);  

 (f) Data and surveillance system data must be retained for 6 months; and 

 (g) Any errors or irregularities identified by the quality improvement program. 

 (4) Records of dispensing from a PPK must include the: 

 (a) Physical location of the PPK; 

 (b) Identification of the patient or patient’s agent retrieving the prescription, non-prescription drugs, and supplies; 

 (c) A digital image of the individual to whom the prescription was dispensed. 

 (d) Date and time of transaction; 

 (e) Each prescription number, patient name, prescriber name, drug name, strength, dosage form and quantity; 

 (f) Each non-prescription drug and supply name, UPC or NDC number, and quantity; and 

 (g) Name of Pharmacist or Intern who provided counseling to the patient or patient’s agent, if required, documentation that the counseling was performed or that the Pharmacist or Intern accepted the patient or patient’s agent request not to be counseled. 

 (5) Records of stocking and destocking of prescriptions into or from a PPK must include the: 

 (a) Date and time; 

 (b) Each prescription number, patient name, prescriber name, drug name, strength, dosage form and quantity; 

 (c) Each non-prescription drug and supply name, UPC or NDC number, and quantity; 

 (d) Name and Oregon license number of the person stocking or destocking prescription, non-prescription drugs and supplies from the system; and 

 (e) Identity of the Pharmacist who verifies that the system has been accurately stocked or destocked. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 689.205 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 689.155, ORS 689.508 & ORS 689.527 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BP 50-2022, adopt filed 12/20/2022, effective 02/15/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
