



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 305 CERTIFIED CHILD CARE CENTERS 
 414-305-0610 
 Feeding Infants and Toddlers 
 
 
(1)    If serving children under 12 months of age, a certified child care center must comply with the following requirements for each child under 12 months of age: 
(a)    The center must have and follow a written feeding plan and schedule that includes the types and amounts of formula, human milk, and food that is obtained from the child’s parent(s) and updated regularly.  
(b)    The center must feed the child on their own feeding schedule and fed when hungry.  
(c)    The center must clearly mark formula, human milk, bottles, and food provided by the parent(s) with the child's full name and date and refrigerated if required. 
(d)    The center may not give infant formula to an infant who consumes human milk, without parental consent. 
(e)    The center must give human milk only to the child specified to receive it by the parent(s). 
(f)    Human milk must: 
(A)    Be labeled with the child's full name and the date expressed;  
(B)    Be stored for no more than:  
(i)    24 hours in the refrigerator when thawed or defrosting; or 
(ii)   Six months from the expression date in the freezer.  
(C)    Be refrigerated or frozen until immediately before warming; 
(D)    Not be warmed in a microwave; 
(E)    Not reused after 2 hours from serving; 
(F)    Not be returned to the refrigerator, freezer, or re-warmed once warmed. 
(g)    If human milk or formula is given to the wrong child, parents of both children must be immediately notified and the incident documented as an accident/incident.  
(h)    Human milk that has not been served, must be returned to the parent in the bottle or container that it was provided in. 
(i)    Prepared formula not used may be returned to the parent or discarded daily, based on the preference of the parent. 
(j)    When formula is provided by the center, it must be either:  
(A)    Commercially prepared, iron-enriched, ready-to-feed type; or 
(B)    Prepared from powder or concentrate and diluted according to manufacturers' instructions. 
(k)    When formula is prepared on site, it must be mixed in a kitchen or classroom food preparation area approved by the environmental health specialist. 
(l)    When formula is provided by parents:  
(A)    It must come in sealed containers; and 
(B)    The caregiver must follow the manufacturer's instructions for mixing and storing of any formula preparation, unless requested by the child’s parent(s) and with a medical practitioner’s written permission. 
(m)    Whole milk, skim milk, 1 percent milk, and 2 percent milk must not be served unless requested by the child's parent(s) and with a medical practitioner’s written permission. 
(n)    The center must not serve juice, of any kind, to infants. 
(o)    Infant formula cannot be mixed with cereal, fruit juice, or other foods without a medical practitioner’s written permission.   
(p)    The center must not give infants, under six months of age, water to drink, without written approval by a medical professional. 
(q)    The center must warm bottles only in one of the following ways: under running, warm tap water; using a commercial bottle warmer; stove top warming methods, or slow-cooking device; or by placing them in a container of warm water. 
(A)    Bottles must not be warmed in microwave ovens. 
(B)    Once warmed, a bottle must not be returned to the refrigerator or re-warmed. 
(C)    Warming devices must remain inaccessible to children. 
(r)    Bottles, bottle caps, nipples and other equipment used for bottle feeding that a certified child care center provides must be cleaned and sanitized by washing in a dishwasher or by washing, rinsing and boiling for 1 minute. Nipples must be stored in a closed container after sanitizing. 
(s)    Solid foods fed to infants must be selected from the Child and Adult Care Food Program Meal Pattern (CACFP): 
(A)    Solid foods must not be fed to infants less than four months of age; 
(B)    Commercially packaged baby food must be served from a dish and not directly from the factory-sealed container; 
(C)    Leftovers in the serving container must be discarded;  
(D)    Solid foods, with the exception of finger foods, must be fed with a spoon; and 
(E)    Food must be cut into small pieces no larger than 1/4 inch cubes for infants and 1/2 inch cubes for 1-year-olds. 
(t)    Partially served containers of baby food must be either sent home with parents or the contents discarded daily. 
(2)    When bottle feeding, a certified child care center must:  
(a)    Hold infants up to 6 months of age and older children who cannot hold their own bottles or sit alone;  
(b)    Ensure the infant’s head is elevated while being fed; and 
(c)    Not allow infants to walk around with or sleep with a bottle or training cup. 
(3)    A certified child care center must not lay a child of any age down with a bottle or training cup. 
(4)    A certified child care center must not prop a bottle by any means at any time.  
(5)    When feeding solid foods, a certified child care center must ensure that infants are fed in an upright position.  
(6)    As soon as the child exhibits a desire to feed their self, the child must be assisted and encouraged to use their fingers for self-feeding, eat with a spoon, and to drink from individual cups. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELD 10-2023, adopt filed 06/28/2023, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
