



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
   Temporary rule language in effect until 10/19/2026. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 149 GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO PUBLIC CONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION SERVICES 
 736-149-0900 
 Contract Suspension; Termination Procedures 
 
 (1) Suspension of Work. In the event the department suspends performance of work for any reason considered by the department to be in the public interest other than a labor dispute, the contractor shall be entitled to a reasonable extension of contract time, and to reasonable compensation for all costs, including a reasonable allowance for related overhead, incurred by the contractor as a result of the suspension. 

 (2) Termination of Contract by mutual agreement for reasons other than default. 

 (a) Reasons for termination. The parties may agree to terminate the contract or a divisible portion thereof if: 

 (A) The department suspends work under the contract for any reason considered to be in the public interest (other than a labor dispute, or any judicial proceeding relating to the work filed to resolve a labor dispute); and 

 (B) Circumstances or conditions are such that it is impracticable within a reasonable time to proceed with a substantial portion of the work. 

 (b) Payment. When a contract, or any divisible portion thereof, is terminated pursuant to this section (2), the department shall pay the contractor a reasonable amount of compensation for preparatory Work completed, and for costs and expenses arising out of termination. The department shall also pay for all Work completed, based on the contract price. Unless the work completed is subject to unit or itemized pricing under the contract, payment shall be calculated based on percent of contract completed. No claim for loss of anticipated profits will be allowed. 

 (3) Public interest termination by Department. The department may include in its contracts terms detailing the circumstances under which the contractor shall be entitled to compensation as a matter of right in the event the department unilaterally terminates the contract for any reason considered by the department to be in the public interest. 

 (4) Responsibility for completed Work. Termination of the contract or a divisible portion thereof pursuant to this rule shall not relieve either the contractor or its surety of liability for claims arising out of the work performed. 

 (5) Remedies cumulative. The department may, at its discretion, avail itself of any or all rights or remedies set forth in these rules, in the contract, or available at law or in equity. 

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279.025(3)(k) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279.025(3)(k) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 2-2026, temporary adopt filed 04/23/2026, effective 04/24/2026 through 10/19/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
