



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 175 EMPLOYMENT RELATED DAY CARE PROGRAM 
 414-175-0005 
 Application for ERDC Benefits 
 
 (1)    A caretaker or the authorized representative of the filing group must submit an application for ERDC benefits on a form approved by the Department. As used in this rule, the “applicant” is the caretaker or the authorized representative of the filing group who submits an application. The applicant must submit the application to the Oregon Department of Human Services. Submitting an application to the Oregon Department of Human Services constitutes a request for benefits.   
(2)    The application must be accessed through the Oregon Department of Human Services. This includes, but is not limited to:  
(a)    Online ONE account at https://one.oregon.gov/UserRegistration/LoginCA; 
(b)    With a paper application; or 
(c)    By contacting the Oregon Department of Human Services to request assistance with applying for benefits. The request may be oral or in writing.  
(3)    The Date of Request is the day the request for benefits is received by the Oregon Department of Human Services.  
(4)    An applicant has forty-five (45) days to complete the application from the Date of Request. The Department may allow additional time if: 
(a)    Information needed to determine eligibility is expected to be received after the 45-day deadline, and the applicant has no control over the information; 
(b)    Circumstances beyond the control of the applicant prevent the Department from making the decision within the 45-day period; or 
(c)    As otherwise provided in these rules.  
(5)    As used in this rule, a “complete” application is one that: 
(a)    Enables the Department to determine eligibility in accordance with Division 175 of Chapter 414 of the Oregon Administrative Rules.  
(b)    Is signed by the applicant. 
(A)    An applicant who is unable to sign the application may sign with a mark, witnessed by Oregon Department of Human Services representative. 
(B)    An applicant submitting an electronic application must submit the application with an electronic signature. 
(6)    Except as provided otherwise in subsection (6)(b) and (c) of this rule, an interview with an adult in the filing group (see OAR 414-175-0015) or the authorized representative of the filing group is required to process an initial application and a renewal of benefits. 
(a)    If an applicant requests a face-to-face interview, the Oregon Department of Human Services will conduct a face-to-face interview. 
(b)    An interview is not required when the Department has implemented the Child Care Waitlist and it is determined that a decision notice of ineligibility will be sent under OAR 414-175-0010. 
(c)    A filing group that is experiencing homelessness or requires child care for a current foster child is not required to complete an interview during “priority processing,” as described in section (8) of this rule.  
(7)    If the Department requests additional information that is necessary to determine eligibility, the applicant is entitled to a written notice that includes a statement of the specific information needed to determine eligibility and the date by which the applicant must provide the required information. 
(8)    A filing group that is experiencing homelessness or requires child care for a current foster child may receive “priority processing.” For purposes of this rule, “priority processing” means the benefits may be open for up to three months while pending for required verification in accordance with OAR 414-175-0024 during the application period. 
(9)    The Department, through the Oregon Department of Human Services, will send a decision notice not later than 45th day after the Date of Request. The Department may extend the period if one or more of the following subsections applies: 
(a)    Information needed to determine eligibility is expected to be received after the 45-day deadline, and the applicant has no control over the information. 
(b)    Other circumstances beyond the control of the applicant prevent the Department from making the decision within the 45-day period. 
(10)    If an applicant files an application containing the caretaker’s name and address, the Department must send the caretaker a decision notice. 
(11)    An applicant may withdraw an application at any time. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.500 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.500 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 139-2024, amend filed 12/11/2024, effective 01/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELD 11-2023, adopt filed 06/28/2023, effective 07/01/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
