



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 360 CERTIFIED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-360-0370 
 Orientation and Initial Training 
 
 (1)    Prior to being issued an initial certificate, a provider must complete: 
(a)    Introduction to Child Care Health & Safety Training;  
(b)    A minimum of two hours of training on child abuse and neglect that is specific to Oregon law;  
(c)    Safe Sleep for Oregon’s Infants;  
(d)    Current certification in  pediatric CPR and first aid. CPR training must have practical hands-on instruction. CPR courses that involve an on-line component with hands-on instruction may be accepted. Strictly on-line CPR training is not acceptable;  
(e)    Foundations for Learning child development training; and  
(f)    Oregon food handler’s certification.  
(2)    The provider’s Oregon food handler’s certification and  pediatric CPR and first aid certification must remain current while the certification is active. 
(3)    A provider must ensure that all caregivers, including substitutes:  
(a)    Receive an orientation within the first 10 business days of working in the home and before caregivers have unsupervised access to children. An orientation must include, but is not limited to:  
(A)    A review of the rules for certified family child care homes;  
(B)    The written plan for emergency preparedness that addresses evacuation, relocation, shelter-in-place and lockdown procedures and responding to medical emergencies, illness and injuries, allergic reactions, and other incidents;  
(C)    The prevention and control of infectious diseases;  
(D)    Building and premises safety including identification and protection from hazards such as electrical hazards, bodies of water, and vehicular traffic;  
(E)    The handling and storage of hazardous materials and the appropriate disposal of bodily fluids;  
(F)    Safe sleep practices, prevention of shaken baby syndrome,  abusive head trauma, and child maltreatment; 
(G)    The provider’s policies, as required under OAR 414-360-0200, Policies; and  
(H)    Procedures for reporting suspected child abuse or neglect.  
(b)    Complete the following within 30 days of beginning work in the home and prior to having unsupervised access to children:  
(A)    Introduction to Child Care Health and Safety;  
(B)    A minimum of 2 hours of CCLD approved training on recognizing and reporting child abuse and neglect that is specific to Oregon law; and  
(C)    Safe Sleep for Oregon's infants.  
(c)    Complete the following within 90 days of beginning work in the home and prior to having unsupervised access to children:  
(A)    Current certification in pediatric CPR and first aid. On-line CPR training is only acceptable if it includes hands-on instruction. Pediatric CPR and first aid must be kept current during employment at the certified family child care home; and    
(B)    Foundations for Learning child development training.  
(d)    Obtain an Oregon food handler’s certification prior to preparing and serving food and/or bottles. Food handler’s certification must remain current during employment at the certified family child care home. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 138-2024, adopt filed 12/11/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
