



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Finance and Securities Regulation - Chapter 441 
 
 
 
 
 Division 735 PAYDAY AND TITLE LENDING 
 441-735-0110 
 Accounting Records of Licensee 
 
 (1) The accounting records of a licensee must reflect a complete segregation of the loan transactions from any other business in which the licensee may be engaged.  (2) The licensee must maintain separate control accounts or other acceptable records to reflect such segregation for:  (a) Loans receivable;  (b) Charges; and  (c) Repossessed property and sales of repossessed property.  (3) The licensee must fully account for receipt and disbursement of all charges charged or collected.  (4) Each licensee must maintain a log of:  (a) Loans made, listing each loan in sequence by number or date of loan and showing:  (A) The amount of the loan;  (B) The type of security taken;  (C) The rate of interest charged; and  (D) The types of insurance for which premium charges have been made in connection with the loan and which are payable by the borrower.  (c) Any litigation initiated by the licensee showing for each proceeding:  (A) The borrower's name and account number;  (B) The court where the proceeding is filed;  (C) The date of filing; and  (D) When applicable, the date, and terms of any disposition of the matter.  (d) Information on files sent to a collection agency showing, for each file:  (A) The borrower's name, the account number;  (B) The original date of the loan, the due date of the loan, or last renewal or extension;  (C) The date the loan was sent to the collection agency;  (D) The name of the collection agency; and  (E) The date and amount of monies received from the collection agency.  (F) A separate log of files sent to a collection agency need not be maintained provided the information is available in existing records at the time of examination.  (6) When a judgment is entered in a court proceeding initiated by a licensee on a loan, the licensee forthwith must place in the related loan file either:  (a) A copy of the judgment entered in the proceeding; or  (b) A statement verified by a representative of the licensee, detailing the essential provisions of the judgment.  (7) Licensees who make both title and payday loans must maintain separate logs for each type of loan. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 725A.092 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 725A.052 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 2-2012, f. & cert. ef. 7-23-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 7-2010, f. & cert. ef. 6-4-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
