



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Police 
 Oregon State Athletic Commission - Chapter 230 
 
 
 
 
 Division 145 CONDUCT OF BOUT- COMBAT JIU JITSU 
 230-145-0018 
 Method of Determining Winner in Combat Jiu Jitsu Bout 
 
 (1) Every combat jiu-jitsu bout consists of one (1) regulation round and up to three (3) overtime rounds of two (2) minutes for each competitor. Regulation rounds shall be ten (10) minutes for professional CJJ and amateur bouts may not be less than six (6) minutes. 

 (2) In the regulation round, the bout may be won by submission, technical submission, technical knockout, knockout or disqualification. 

 (3) If no winner is declared during the 10-minute regulation round, bouts will continue to overtime. 

 (4) Overtime: 

 (a) Overtime consists of up to three (3), two (2) minute rounds per competitor. No striking is allowed during overtime rounds. 

 (b) Competitors will flip a coin prior to commencement of overtime. The winner will have the choice of deciding whether to start in an offensive or defensive position. 

 (c) The competitor in the offensive position may choose between two starting positions; either seated back control with both hooks and a seatbelt grip, or in an armbar position. 

 (A) In the back control position, the overtime round will not start until both competitors spinal position is perpendicular with the floor. 

 (B) The armbar position allows for two arms threaded, or one arm threaded with the unthreaded hand placed firmly on the ground until the round starts. 

 (C) Both positions allow for the defensive person to defend in any manner they wish without disengaging the offensive competitors posture or position. 

 (d) Competitors may not seek to advance their position prior to the referee starting the match. 

 (e) Winners are determined based on fastest submission time, or fastest cumulative escape time if all overtime rounds are utilized. 

 (5) Escape for overtime purposes is defined as a change of position that does not result in a legitimate submission threat. A transition to a leg attack will be considered an escape and time shall stop. If the defensive competitor submits the offensive competitor, it is considered an escape and not a submission. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 463.113 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 463.113 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SAC 3-2023, adopt filed 09/07/2023, effective 10/01/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
