



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 175 EMPLOYMENT RELATED DAY CARE PROGRAM 
 414-175-0006 
 Authorized Representatives 
 
 (1)    Unless otherwise limited by these rules, an authorized representative may do any of the following: 
(a)    With the exception of the authorized representative designation form and subject to the exception in subsection (c) of this section (1): complete, sign, and submit any applications, renewals, or documents on behalf of the applicant or caretaker. 
(b)    Receive copies of notices and other communications from the Department for the applicant or caretaker. 
(c)    Act on behalf of the applicant or caretaker by reporting information and submitting requests to the Department or the Oregon Department of Human Services. 
(2)    The following individuals may appoint an authorized representative on a form designated by the Department subject to the limitations listed in sections of this rule, unless the individual is included in the filing group for the purpose of determining eligibility based on tax filing status: 
(a)    The head of household, primary person, or caretaker. 
(b)    Any individual age 18 and older who is included in each eligibility determination group of the head of household, primary person, or primary contact. 
(c)    An individual given legal guardianship or power of attorney for the head of household, primary person, or caretaker included in each eligibility determination group. 
(3)    The Department may accept a designation of an authorized representative via any of the following methods, which must include either a handwritten or electronic signature of both the individual designating the authorized representative and the authorized representative: 
(a)    The Internet. 
(b)    E-mail. 
(c)    Mail. 
(d)    Telephonic recording. 
(e)    In person. 
(f)    Other electronic means. 
(4)    The following individuals may not serve as an authorized representative:     
(a)    An individual serving an Intentional Program Violation, unless the Department determines no one else is available to serve as the authorized representative. 
(b)    A person who may cause harm to the individual. 
(c)    A person who may have a conflict of interest. 
(d)    Employees of the Department or an employee of the Department’s designee or contractor involved in the certification or issuance processes for ERDC benefits, unless a designated official determined no one else is available to serve as an authorized representative and has given approval. 
(5)    The authorized representative must maintain the confidentiality of any information provided by the Department or the Oregon Department of Human Services regarding the represented individual. 
(6)    An individual or organization ceases to be an authorized representative when: 
(a)    A represented individual notifies the Department or the Oregon Department of Human Services that the designation is terminated; 
(b)    A represented individual appoints a different authorized representative; 
(c)    The authorized representative notifies the Department or the Oregon Department of Human Services that the designation is terminated; 
(d)    The Department or Oregon Department of Human Services determines the authorized representative is no longer permitted to be the authorized representative; or 
(e)    There is a change in the legal authority upon which the authorized representative’s authority was based. 
(7)    An authorized representative may be subject to an overpayment (see OAR 461-195-0501 and OAR 461-195-0541) in addition to other penalties. The Oregon Department of Human Services, on behalf of the Department, may prohibit the person from serving as an authorized representative for one year. 
(8)    If an individual has applied for or is requesting benefits under the ERDC program, through an authorized representative for purposes of these rules, the  individual must utilize the same authorized representative to apply for benefits on behalf of the individual under any other programs in Chapter 461 of the Oregon Administrative Rules, in accordance with OAR 461-115-0090. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.500 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.500 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 1-2025, amend filed 02/27/2025, effective 03/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELD 11-2023, adopt filed 06/28/2023, effective 07/01/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
