



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 305 CERTIFIED CHILD CARE CENTERS 
 414-305-1400 
 Animals 
 
 (1)    A certified child care center must ensure that any animal at the center is: 
(a)    In good health and shows no signs of carrying disease; 
(b)    Friendly toward children with no signs or history of aggression; 
(c)    Kept free of fleas, ticks, and worms; 
(d)    Fully immunized including rabies vaccinations for dogs; 
(e)    Kept in a cage or tank with the exception of cats and dogs; and 
(f)    Not permitted in food preparation areas or on children’s resting surfaces. 
(2)    A certified child care center may not allow an animal with any history of biting to be on the premises of the center.  
(3)    A certified child care center must prevent any direct contact by children with any animals unfamiliar to the center, such as a stray. 
(4)    A certified child care center may allow an animal, other than a cat or dog, such as a poisonous animal, reptile, amphibian, monkey, hook-beaked bird, chicken, duck, hermit crab, rodent or ferret on the premises only if: 
(a)    The animal is housed in and remains in a cage, tank or other measure which precludes any direct contact by children; or 
(b)    The exotic animal is present as part of an educational program run by a zoo, museum or another professional animal handler.  
(5)    A certified child care center must ensure that all contact between an animal and a child is supervised by staff who are close enough to remove the child immediately if the animal shows signs of aggression or distress or the child shows signs of treating the animal inappropriately. 
(6)    A certified child care center must inform parents of any animals on the premises by a clearly viewed notice or bulletin, policy handbook, parent flier, or a statement included on the enrollment form (also see OAR 414-305-0200, Policies).  
(7)    A certified child care center must have and follow written procedures for the care and maintenance of any animals in the center. The procedures must address: 
(a)    Responsibility for the handling, care, and feeding of the animal(s). With close staff supervision, children may participate in the care of animals. 
(b)    At least weekly cleaning and disinfection of pet containers and cages performed in areas not used for food storage or preparation and only when children are not present. 
(c)    Location of litter boxes in areas not accessible to children or used for food storage or preparation; and 
(d)    Prevention of debris spilling out of a container or cage used for pets and animals, if applicable. 
(8)    A certified child care center must keep animal food supplies out of the reach of children and store them separately from food supplies and equipment.  
(9)    Animal food must be stored in a manner that does not attract rodents or insects. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELD 10-2023, adopt filed 06/28/2023, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
