



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Elections Division - Chapter 165 
 
 
 
 
 Division 8 REAPPORTIONMENT 
 165-008-0150 
 Mass Transit District Reapportionment Process 
 
 (1) The purpose of this rule is to establish the procedure by which the Secretary of State will divide mass transit districts into subdistricts, pursuant to ORS 267.090. The Secretary of State, as the chief elections officer for the State of Oregon, has the responsibility to adopt rules that the Secretary considers necessary to facilitate and assist in achieving a maximum degree of correctness,  impartiality  and efficiency in administration of the election laws. This rule is intended to carry out the Secretary’s responsibilities by describing the process applicable to the redistricting of mass transit districts. Under the Secretary of State’s authority, this process requires significant engagement by the affected transit districts.    

 (2) As used in this rule, “mass transit district” means a mass transit district established under ORS 267.010 to 267.394.   

 (3)  A mass transit district must submit to the Secretary of State’s office a map, containing proposed subdistricts, that:   

 (a) Complies with the Oregon and United States  Constitutions;   

 (b) Complies with Oregon statutory law, including ORS  267.090(2);   

 (c) Ensures that each subdistrict, as nearly as practicable:   

 (A) Is  contiguous;   

 (B) Is of equal  population;   

 (C) Utilizes existing geographic or political  boundaries;   

 (D) Do not divide communities of interest; and    

 (E) Is connected by transportation links;     

 ( d ) Is consistent with the diversity, equity and inclusion and accessibility values of the Secretary of State, as outlined in the agency’s mission, vision, and values. 

 (4) Each mass transit district must engage the public in drafting a proposed map. Each district must develop a written description of the district’s public engagement process and provide the description to the Secretary of State.  

 (5)  The proposed map and description of the public engagement process must be submitted to the Secretary of State no later than May 1 6  of the even-numbered year following legislative reapportionment.     

 (6) The Secretary of State will review proposed map s for compliance with the requirements contained in this rule.    

 (a) If the Secretary of State determines that a proposed map complies with the requirements of this rule and that the mass transit district conducted an appropriate public engagement process, the Secretary of State will approve the map and divide the mass transit subdistricts accordingly.    

 (b) If the Secretary of State does not make the determinations described in subsection (6 )(a) of this rule, the Secretary of State  may provide further instruction and guidance to the mass transit district and request that the district resubmit a map with changes identified by the Secretary.    

 (7) Notwithstanding any other provision of this rule, the Secretary of State reserves the right to decline to adopt a proposed map submitted by a mass transit district and to divide the districts into subdistricts in a manner consistent with subsection (3) of this rule.    

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 246.150 & ORS 267.090 (2) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 267.090 (2) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELECT 10-2022, adopt filed 02/01/2022, effective 02/02/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
