



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 TEXTBOOK ADOPTION 
 581-011-0155 
 Criteria for the Selection and Adoption of Instructional Materials 
 
 (1)(a) The State Board of Education shall: 

 (A) Adopt instructional materials criteria according to the subject matter cycle adopted by the board and described in OAR 581-011-0165. 

 (B) Review the criteria which will be used in the evaluation of instructional materials submitted for adoption and adopt the criteria no later than its January meeting in the scheduled adoption year. 

 (b) If the January meeting is cancelled, adopt in the board meeting held immediately following January 31 in the scheduled adoption year. 

 (2) Instructional materials criteria committees shall develop the criteria according to the following procedures: 

 (a) Instructional materials criteria committees shall be appointed by and work under the supervision of the Oregon Department of Education. 

 (b) A criteria committee in each subject area for which state adoptions are planned shall be appointed in a time and manner determined by the Department. The committee shall recommend categories and draft criteria to be used in evaluating the instructional materials submitted for consideration. 

 (c) Committees shall conduct work in the fall of the year preceding the adoption year. 

 (d)(A) The Department shall present the final draft of the criteria to the State Board of Education by the Board's January meeting in the year of the adoption. 

 (B) If the January meeting is cancelled, the Department will present in the board meeting held immediately following January 31 in the scheduled adoption year. 

 (e) Each committee shall be chaired by the Department of Education specialist in the particular subject area for which criteria are being developed. In the event that there is not a staff specialist in a particular subject field, the Department may obtain a specialist to serve as chair. 

 (f) Each committee shall include no less than five members selected from among Oregon classroom teachers, curriculum specialists, and others having experience and expertise in the subject area under consideration. 

 (g) Travel, lodging, and meal expenses for committee meetings are to be reimbursed in accordance with state policy. 

 (h) An honorarium may be awarded to each committee member who completes all the duties as assigned, to be determined by the Department of Education. The honorarium is to be determined based on current Department of Education compensation for similar tasks. 

 (i) Criteria committees shall develop criteria which set the standard for selection of instructional materials by evaluation committees and the State Board of Education. These criteria shall include, but not be limited to, the major concepts of the Content Standards and Essential Skills established by the State Board of Education for Oregon schools; the criteria shall require instructional materials to reflect respect for all people, regardless of age, disability, national origin, race, color, marital status, religion, sex, sexual orientation, immigration or citizenship status, or gender identity. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 337.035 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 337.035, ORS 337.050, ORS 337.060, ORS 337.075 & ORS 337.260 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 35-2026, adopt filed 06/22/2026, effective 06/22/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
