



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-1220 
 Transportation Safety 
 
 (1) A certified ONB program must maintain the following items in the vehicle as well as on the premises of the certified ONB program: 
(a) An operable phone; 
(b) Program information including ONB program name, address, and phone number; 
(c) Proof of vehicle insurance; 
(d) A checklist of all children being transported with any pick-up and delivery times and locations; 
(e) Emergency medical information on each child including parents’ contact information, special medical needs, medications, allergies, the name and phone number of the child’s doctor, and emergency medical authorization forms; 
(f) When transporting children with chronic medical conditions (such as asthma, diabetes, or seizures), their emergency care treatment plans, supplies and medication; and 
(g) A first aid kit that is easily accessible to staff and not children, and with contents specified in OAR 414-320-1020, Injuries. 
(2) A certified ONB program must ensure the following safety practices are followed: 
(a) The vehicle doors are locked when the vehicle is moving and when not in use. 
(b) The motor is turned off, the brake set, and the keys removed whenever the driver leaves the vehicle.   
(c) No vehicle window, except that of the driver, is opened to more than 50 percent of its capacity when children are on board. 
(d) Children's entire bodies remain in the vehicle. 
(e) Safe conduct to and from the vehicles and safe off-street loading spaces is provided. 
(A) Children must be loaded and unloaded only at the curb or at an off-street area protected from traffic on the same side of the street as the building they will enter; and 
(B) If children must cross a street, they must be accompanied by an adult. 
(f) Staff must have clear instructions on handling emergency breakdowns and accidents, including vehicle evacuation procedures, supervision of the children, and contacting emergency help. 
(g) Staff at the certified ONB program must know the routine arrival and departure times of the vehicle and take action if the vehicle does not return at a scheduled time. 
(h) Before leaving the vehicle, the driver or the last personnel in the vehicle must inspect all areas of the vehicle to prevent a child from being left in the vehicle. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
