



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 674 PREFABRICATED CONSTRUCTION 
 918-674-0700 
 Alterations 
 
 (1) Prefabricated structures that have Oregon insignia of compliance affixed for the purposes of sale, rent, lease or installation in Oregon are expected to remain in compliance with these rules to maintain the validity of the Oregon insignia of compliance. The division may approve alterations to an Oregon-approved prefabricated building according to these rules. 

 (a) Alterations apply only to Oregon-approved prefabricated buildings located in Oregon that are required to have Oregon insignia of compliance for the purposes of sale, rent, lease or installation in Oregon. 

 (b) Alterations to prefabricated buildings are not included under the reciprocity agreement with another state. 

 (c) Alterations to buildings or structures that have prefabricated components are not regulated under OAR chapter 918, division 674. Alterations to buildings or structures that include prefabricated components that have Oregon insignia affixed invalidates the Oregon insignia of compliance. Local building departments are authorized to regulate alterations to buildings involving prefabricated components. The local building department must remove any Oregon insignia of compliance and return it to the division for alterations associated with prefabricated components. 

 (2) Alterations include, but are not limited to: 

 (a) Change of occupancy classification or intended use; 

 (b) Structural changes that alter the building from its original approval; 

 (c) Addition or removal of mechanical systems (e.g. adding or removing HVAC equipment); 

 (d) Addition or removal of electrical installations involving the building’s electrical system; 

 (e) Addition or removal of plumbing systems (e.g. adding or removing a restroom); or 

 (f) Reconfiguring a multi-section building by adding to or splitting up of sections, or the joining of building sections from separately approved prefabricated buildings. 

 (3) Alterations do not include minor repairs, adjustments or maintenance of equipment, or replacement of equipment and accessories of like kind or better. 

 (4) The owner of an Oregon-approved prefabricated building intending to alter the building has the option to either maintain the validity of the Oregon insignia of compliance or remove the Oregon insignia of compliance from the building. 

 (a) If the building owner intends to maintain the validity of the Oregon insignia of compliance, the building owner must use a business that is eligible to receive services from the division. This could be an existing manufacturer or business located in Oregon, provided that the business is registered with the division according to these rules. 

 (b) Authorization must be obtained from the division prior to a building owner initiating an alteration process with the division. The building owner must demonstrate to the division that the building is an Oregon-approved prefabricated building. 

 (c) Information necessary for the division to make a determination that a building is an Oregon-approved prefabricated building includes, but is not limited to: 

 (A) Original division plan approval number. 

 (B) Oregon insignia of compliance number(s) (photo(s) of the insignia(s) is helpful). 

 (C) If the building has insignia from another state, it should not be construed to mean the building is eligible to receive any services or approvals from the division. 

 (D) Serial number(s) issued by the original manufacturer of the prefabricated building. Provide the serial number for each section of a multi-section building. 

 (E) Lease unit numbers are not acceptable, nor will they be used by the division for any alteration project. 

 (5) If the division determines the prefabricated building is an Oregon-approved prefabricated building the building owner must comply with the following: 

 (a) Alteration plans must be submitted with a division-approved application form along with the plan review fees established in OAR 918-674-0730(6)(b). Unless otherwise required, alteration plans should only include the plans specific to the alteration. If the alteration changes the structural engineering of the original building, updated engineering must be submitted. Alteration plans are required to be approved by an Oregon registered design professional for the applicable code discipline(s) to which the alteration applies. 

 (b) Alteration plans must clearly indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed. The plans must show in detail that they conform to the applicable provisions in Oregon adopted specialty codes. Plan submittals must include a cover letter explaining the alteration. If available, include the original division-approved plans to which the building was constructed. 

 (c) Plans submitted for alterations are only applicable to a single prefabricated building alteration project. Approved alteration plans are valid for 180 days from the date of approval and are not eligible for renewal or extension. 

 (d) An alteration plan application will be deemed to have been abandoned by the applicant after 180 days following last official request for additional information to the applicant by the division. 

 (6) Oregon insignia of compliance for the alteration must be applied for at the same time plans are submitted for review. Apply for insignia of compliance by submitting a division-approved application form along with the applicable fees required in OAR 918-674-0730. 

 (7) Alterations must be inspected by the division as required in applicable Oregon adopted specialty code prior to any work being covered. 

 (a) Alteration inspections must be requested by electronic mail or other methods as established by the division. The division must be notified a minimum of 48 hours prior to the date an inspection is requested for, excluding weekends and holidays, unless a different time for inspection is set by mutual agreement. 

 (b) Inspection fees are based on hourly fee rates established in OAR 918-674-0730. 

 (c) Any costs or delays associated with opening concealed construction for the purposes of determining code compliance is the responsibility of the building owner or applicant. 

 (d) If the required inspections are approved, Oregon insignia of compliance will be issued to the building. 

 (e) An Oregon-approved prefabricated building may be altered more than once, provided that each alteration is approved by the division. 

 (8) Prefabricated buildings discovered or determined to have been altered without prior division approval or other evidence is discovered that reveals the prefabricated building is no longer in compliance with these rules will require Oregon insignia of compliance to be removed from the building. If the discovery or determination is associated with an application for alteration, the alteration application will be canceled. The building owner or applicant must return any Oregon insignia of compliance affixed to the building to the division within 30 days of the date the owner or applicant was notified by the division that the prefabricated building was determined to be out of compliance with these rules. 

 (9) Once Oregon insignia of compliance are removed from a prefabricated building, the building can never again become an Oregon-approved prefabricated building. The division does not allow any plan review, visual inspection, or other equivalency processes for the purposes of allowing an existing prefabricated building to become an Oregon-approved prefabricated building. 

 [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 455.100, ORS 455.110 & ORS 455.705 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 455.110 & ORS 455.705 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 7-2026, adopt filed 07/01/2026, effective 07/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
