



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Business Development Department 
 Chapter 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 700 CHILD CARE INFRASTRUCURE PROGRAM 
 123-700-0040 
 Application Review & Prioritization 
 
 (1) Applications will be evaluated by a committee consisting of Department staff, staff from the Oregon Department of Early Learning and Care, and qualified community partners. The committee will provide the Department with funding recommendations based on the criteria set for in these rules and the RFA. The Department retains all funding award authority.  
(2) The committee will evaluate applications using an award rubric that results in a numeric rating for each the following categories and any additional categories set out in the RFA:  
(a) The degree to which child care slots are created or preserved; 
(b) The impact on licensing or health and safety of children; 
(c) The level of need for child care in the applicant's geographic area using state child care desert data; 
(d) The project's hours of operation; 
(e) Whether the project accepts subsidy; 
(f) Whether the project provides culturally or linguistically appropriate care; 
(g) Whether the project aligns with the regional child care priorities outlined in the Early Learning Hub's Early Education and Care Sector Plan as described in ORS 329.172(2)(a) 
(h) The effect on infant and toddler care; 
(i) The degree to which the proposed project is ready to proceed; and  
(j) The proposed project's sustainability. 
(3) After the committee completes the evaluation process set forth in the RFA, the Department will prioritize the applications based on the committee's scoring, geographic distribution, communities served, and any other factors set forth in the RFA to make award decisions. 
(4) In the event that more than one application receives the same score, the applications have equal prioritization, and the Department lacks sufficient funding to award all applications, as set forth in these rules and the RFA, the Department may use a lottery to select applications that will receive an award. 
(5) Applications that are selected for an award shall receive a notice of intent to award, and unsuccessful applicants shall receive a letter of explanation from the Department. 
(6) As applicable, the notice of intent to award shall contain an offer of an amount for a grant or loan (or a combination thereof). The Department may make an offer that is less than what was requested by the applicant. Loan awards to public entity shall be conditioned on a pledge of the entity's full faith and credit and taxing power within Article XI, sections 11 and 11b of the Oregon Constitution. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 285A.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  OR Laws 2023 ch 523 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 18-2024, adopt filed 07/17/2024, effective 07/17/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
