



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Medical Assistance Programs - Chapter 410 
 
 
 
 
 Division 124 TRANSPLANT SERVICES 
 410-124-0006 
 Transplant Hospital Requirements And Reimbursement 
 
 Transplant services shall be reimbursed only when provided in a transplant hospital that meets the Division requirements. 

 (1) Medicare certified transplant facility. 

 (2) Must be an enrolled provider with Oregon Health Authority, Health Systems Division outlined in OAR 410-120-1260. 

 (3) Selection of transplant hospitals by geographic location: If the services are available in the state of Oregon, reimbursement shall not be made to out-of-state transplant hospitals. 

 (4) Out-of-state transplant hospitals shall be considered only if: 

 (a) The type of transplant required is not available in Oregon and/or the type of transplant (for example, liver transplant) is available in Oregon but the Oregon transplant hospital does not provide that type of transplant for all clients or all covered diagnoses, (e.g., pediatric transplants); and 

 (b) An in-state transplant hospital requests the out-of-state transplant referral; and 

 (c) Be cost effective as determined by the Division. For example, if the transplant service is covered by the client's benefit package and the client's primary insurer (i.e., Medicare) requires the use of an out-of-state transplant hospital; or 

 (d) It is a contiguous, out-of-state transplant hospital that has a contract or special agreement for reimbursement with the Division. 

 (5) Professional and other services shall be covered according to administrative rules in the applicable provider guides. 

 (6) Reimbursement for covered transplants and follow-up care for transplant services is as follows: 

 (a) For transplants for fee-for-service clients: 

 (A) Transplant facility services — by contract with the Division; 

 (B) Professional services — at the Division's maximum allowable rates. 

 (b) For emergency services, when no special agreement has been established, the rate shall be: 

 (A) 75% of standard inpatient billed charge; and 

 (B) 50% of standard outpatient billed charge. 

 (c) For clients enrolled in Managed Care Entity (MCE), reimbursement for transplant services shall be by agreement between the MCE and the transplant hospital. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 414.065 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 49-2023, adopt filed 06/30/2023, effective 07/01/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
