



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Corrections 
 Chapter 291 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 172 LEAP – LEARNING ENTREPRENEURSHIP, ARTS AND PRODUCTION 
 291-172-0180 
 Product Sales and E-Commerce Portal 
 
 (1) Pricing and Transactions 

 (a) All sales must be in full compliance with local, state, and federal laws, and therefore goods may not be sold outside of Oregon. 

 (b) An AIC LEAP participant may conduct sales in the community pursuant to all local, state, and federal laws. 

 (c) It will be the responsibility of the AIC LEAP participant to determine market-based pricing for their products. 

 (d) AIC LEAP participants are not allowed to make special deals or offers to customers. 

 (e) All sales are final, and no refunds will be given. Exceptions are at the discretion of the LEAP program supervisor and must be approved by the FUM or designee. 

 (2) E-Commerce Portal 

 (a) All sales using e-commerce shall be made pursuant to all local, state and federal laws. 

 (b) AIC LEAP participants in good program standing at facilities participating in e-commerce may advertise their products using the secure DOC sponsored e-commerce portal. 

 (c) The DOC-sponsored e-commerce portal may conceal the identities of AIC LEAP participants. 

 (d) The LEAP program supervisor or designee will review and approve items before placing them on the e-commerce portal. 

 (e) The LEAP program supervisor or designee will decide where and when to add items on the e-commerce portal. 

 (f) AIC LEAP participants cannot advertise products through DOC sponsored e-commerce portal that contain profanity or nudity, are sexually explicit, promote or glorify hatred, violence, intoxicants or intolerance of race, gender, religious, or cultural heritage. Content decisions are at the discretion of the LEAP Program Supervisor in consultation, if necessary, with the FUM. 

 (3) Sales other than E-Commerce Portal 

 (a) All sales other than e-commerce portal shall be made pursuant to all local, state, and federal laws. 

 (b) An AIC LEAP participant may sell their products through DOC-approved consignments. It is the AIC LEAP participant’s responsibility to ensure consignment agreements are in place prior to sending their items to non-department entities. It is the responsibility of the AIC LEAP participant to ensure that all consignments are compliant with local, state, and federal regulations and that all outgoing mail is in compliance with DOC rule Mail (AIC) OAR 291-131. 

 (c) DOC will not be responsible for unpaid or lost items sent to non-department entities. 

 (d) Other sales events: 

 ( A ) An AIC LEAP participant may participate in facility or DOC-approved LEAP program sales events (visitation, community events, etc.). It is the responsibility of the AIC LEAP participant to manage product inventory and maintain accurate records. The FUM or designee and LEAP program supervisor may control the quantities and types of products for approved events. 

 ( B ) Sales of LEAP Program goods can occur at institution or DOC-sponsored public sales events, independently through an agent. 

 (4) AIC LEAP participants cannot make representations of the Department of Corrections and may not contain images of DOC staff, AICs, or any contact info for DOC to promote or sell products unless specifically approved by the LEAP program supervisor designee. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 179.040, 421.142, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 179.040, 421.142, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 3-2023, adopt filed 01/20/2023, effective 01/20/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
