



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 82 LAND USE ORDINANCE 
 350-082-0570 
 Lot Line Adjustments 
 
 (1) The following guidelines shall apply to lot line adjustments in the GMA. 
(a) Lot line adjustments for parcels in all land use designations except Agriculture-Special, Open Space, Commercial, Public Recreation, or Commercial Recreation shall comply with the following standards: 
(A) The lot line adjustment shall not result in the creation of any new parcel(s). 
(B) The lot line adjustment shall not result in the potential to create a new parcel(s) or residential development in excess of the maximum density allowed by the land use designation(s) for the affected parcels. 
(C) The lot line adjustment shall not allow a parcel that is equal to or larger than the minimum parcel size before the lot line adjustment to become less than the minimum parcel size after the lot line adjustment, except to allow a public or non-profit entity to acquire land for the purpose of protecting and enhancing scenic, cultural, recreation or natural resources, provided the land to be acquired would be protected by a conservation easement or other similar property restriction that precludes future land divisions and development. 
(D) The lot line adjustment shall not allow a parcel that is smaller than the minimum parcel size to be reduced in size, except to accomplish one of the following purposes: 
(i) Resolve boundary disputes, correct physical encroachments, provide reasonable access, or meet buffer or set back requirements, provided that the parcel to be enlarged would not become eligible for a subsequent land division, the amount of land transferred would be the minimum necessary to resolve the issue, and the transfer would not cause a development or land use that currently meets a required setback or buffer to become out of compliance with that required setback or buffer, or cause a development or land use that currently does not meet a required setback or buffer to become out of compliance with that required setback or buffer to a greater extent. 
(ii) Allow a public or non-profit entity to acquire land for the purpose of protecting and enhancing scenic, cultural, recreation or natural resources, provided the land to be acquired would be protected by a conservation easement or other similar property restriction that precludes future land divisions and development. 
(E) The lot line adjustment shall not allow the boundary of a parcel designated Large-Scale Agriculture, Agriculture-Special, Commercial Forest Land, Large Woodland or Open Space to be extended into another land use designation for the purpose of establishing a dwelling under less stringent guidelines (e.g., extending a parcel designated GMA Large-Scale Agriculture into a parcel designated Rural Center or Residential). 
(F) The lot line adjustment shall not allow previously approved parcels or development to violate conditions of approval or become out of compliance or further out of compliance with existing land use and resource protection guidelines, including, but not limited to, requirements for buffer zones and landscaping. 
(G) The lot line adjustment shall not result in a parcel that cannot comply with existing land use and resource protection guidelines, including, but not limited to requirements for buffer zones and landscaping. 
(b) Lot line adjustments for parcels designated Agriculture-Special or Open Space shall comply with the following standards: 
(A) The lot line adjustment may be allowed upon demonstration that it is necessary to facilitate efforts to protect and enhance scenic, cultural, natural, or recreation resources. (Note: There is no specified minimum parcel size for parcels designated Open Space.) 
(B) The lot line adjustment shall comply with subsections (1)(a)(A), (B), (E), (F), and (G) above. 
(c) Lot line adjustments for parcels designated Commercial shall comply with subsections (1)(a)(A), (B), (E), (F), and (G) above. 
(d) Lot line adjustments for parcels designated Public Recreation or Commercial Recreation shall comply with the following standards: 
(A) The lot line adjustment may be allowed upon demonstration that it is necessary to facilitate, enhance, or otherwise improve recreation uses on the parcel. (Note: There are no specified minimum parcel sizes for parcels designated Public Recreation or Commercial Recreation.) 
(B) The lot line adjustment shall comply with subsections (1)(a)(A), (B), (E), (F), and (G) above. 
(2) The following guidelines shall apply to lot line adjustments in the SMAs. 
(a) The proposed lot line adjustment shall not result in the creation of any new parcel(s). 
(b) A lot line adjustment shall not result in a parcel greater than or equal to 40 acres with a dwelling becoming less than 40 acres. 
(c) A lot line adjustment shall not result in a parcel less than 40 acres becoming 40 acres or greater. 
(d) A parcel that is smaller than 40 acres shall not be reduced in size, except to accomplish one of the following purposes: 
(A) Resolve boundary line disputes, correct physical encroachments, provide reasonable access, or meet buffer or set back requirements, provided that the parcel to be enlarged would not become 40 acres or greater and the amount of land transferred would be the minimum necessary to resolve the issue. 
(B) Allow a public or non-profit entity to acquire land for the purpose of protecting and enhancing scenic, cultural, recreation or natural resources, provided the land to be acquired would be protected by a conservation easement or other similar property restriction that precludes residential development. 
(e) The lot line adjustment shall not cause previously approved parcels or development to violate conditions of approval or become out of compliance or further out of compliance with existing land use and resource protection guidelines, including, but not limited to, requirements for buffer zones and landscaping. 
(f) The lot line adjustment shall not result in a parcel that cannot comply with existing land use and resource protection guidelines, including, but not limited to requirements for buffer zones and landscaping. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015, 16 USC § 544e(c) & 16 USC § 544f(l) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015, 16 USC § 544e(c) & 16 USC § 544f(l) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2022, adopt filed 03/02/2022, effective 05/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
