



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 360 CERTIFIED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-360-0860 
 Fire Protection 
 
 (1)    Doorways, evacuation routes, and exits must be kept free of materials, furniture, equipment and debris to allow unobstructed access to the outdoors. The provider must complete a daily inspection to ensure that evacuation routes are clear and exits, including doors and escape windows, are operable.  
(2)    Flammable and combustible materials: 
(a)    Must be stored in the original container or a safety container; 
(b)    Must not be stored within 4 feet of furnaces, other flame or heat-producing equipment, or fuel-fired water heaters; and 
(c)     If over a gallon, kept in an unattached building, such as a shed or garage.   
(3)    Heating and air vents, filters and dryer vents must be cleaned regularly to prevent lint build-up. 
(4)    Items with open flames must not be used, except for the brief supervised use of candles.  
(5)    If fire safety concerns are identified during inspection, CCLD staff may consult with the fire code official and after consultation, may request that the fire code official complete a fire life safety inspection. 
(6)    There must be at least one 2-A-10 BC rated fire extinguisher on each floor of the home, unless the floor is not under the direct control of the provider. 
(a)    Fire extinguishers on floors where child care occurs must be designated on the floor plan required in OAR 414-360-0260(2) and either mounted or stored along the primary evacuation route. Fire extinguishers must be easily accessible and visible. 
(b)    If fire extinguishers are stored in a cabinet or closet, they must be mounted and there must be a sign indicating that the fire extinguisher is located inside. Obstructions, including furniture, storage of supplies, or any other items shall not be placed in a manner that blocks access to the cabinet or closet. 
(c)    The provider must inspect the fire extinguishers monthly and the inspection must be documented. 
(7)    Smoke alarms and carbon monoxide detectors must be: 
(a)    Installed on each floor level of the home and in any area where children nap. If installed outside of a room used for napping, it must be located within 6 feet of the doorway to the room; 
(b)    Maintained in operating order; and 
(c)    Tested monthly to ensure they are in working order. The test must be documented.  
(8)    Fire drills must be practiced monthly at various times during child care operating hours. 
(a)    Fire drills must include a drill using an alternate evacuation route at least once per year. 
(b)    A fire drill must be conducted when required by CCLD during an announced visit. 
(c)    Caregivers must have an alert method (for example, a smoke alarm, strobe light, loud bell or whistle) to warn the occupants of the home of an emergency or drill. 
(d)    A certified family child care must demonstrate efforts to complete full evacuation of caregivers and child care children within three minutes. If unable to evacuate within three minutes, the provider must engage in additional efforts including one or more of the following: 
(A)    Using evacuation cribs, strollers/buggies, or wagons; 
(B)    Providing caregivers with additional training;  
(C)    Giving children specific tasks to complete during the drill, such as holding onto a safety walking rope;  
(D)    Providing children with clear and direct instructions that are age-appropriate about what is happening during the drill;  
(E)    Reviewing and editing emergency plans and evacuation routes;  
(F)    Conducting additional evacuation drills;  
(G)    Incorporating fire safety planning into curriculum; and  
(H)    Other strategies identified by CCLD. 
(e)    One other aspect of the emergency preparedness and response plan in addition to the monthly fire drills shall be practiced at least every other month and must follow the recording requirements listed in OAR 414-360-0860(9). 
(9)    A provider must maintain a written record of each emergency preparedness drill showing:  
(a)    The date and time;  
(b)    The exits used;  
(c)    The number and age range of children evacuated;  
(d)    The total number of people in the home at the time of the drill;  
(e)    The amount of time taken to evacuate the home;  
(f)    The name of the person conducting the drill; and  
(g)    The alert method used. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 138-2024, adopt filed 12/11/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
