



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Medical Imaging 
 Chapter 337 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 LICENSURE 
 337-010-0046 
 Temporary Post-Primary License 
 
   

 (1) Temporary Post-Primary License 

 (a) The temporary post-primary license (TPPL) is intended for a licensee who desires to complete clinical requirements necessary to become credentialed in an additional and different modality. A licensee must hold an OBMI temporary post-primary license in the desired modality to practice imaging and complete the required clinical experience. 

 (A) Supervision must be provided by a technologist fully licensed to practice in the same modality as the modality listed on the temporary post-primary license. 

 (B) All practice completed under the TPPL must be specific to the modality on the TPPL and must be applicable to the temporary post-primary licensee’s clinical requirements for the licensure modality desiring to be added. 

 (C) Levels of supervision for temporary post-primary license: For purposes of this rule, temporary post-primary licensees must receive personal supervision for at least the first three months of the initial temporary post-primary license, with direct supervision for the remaining period of any temporary post-primary licensure. For purposes of this rule, personal supervision means that the supervisor is physically present with the temporary licensee and patient. Direct supervision means that the supervisor is physically present in the building and available to assist the temporary licensee as needed. 

 (b) A temporary post-primary license is valid for six months and may be renewed for a single six-month period. In addition, the temporary post-primary license issued under this rule may be permitted, upon Board approval, to have extended license renewals for up to two additional six-month periods based upon a showing of good cause for each six-month extension renewal, demonstrating that the credentialing registry’s clinical requirements cannot be completed within the prescribed timeframe due to limitations of the clinical practice site. The applicant's written plan regarding how the applicant expects to meet the prerequisites to sit for the registry exam, including information to confirm how many prerequisites have already been completed and will be eligible for inclusion as registry prerequisites. 

 (c) Application process: The following conditions must be met to obtain a temporary post-primary license: 

 (A) The applicant must provide documentation that the applicant has completed a minimum of 16 hours of category “A” content-related education. The applicant must provide documentation of a minimum of eight (8) hours of Category “A” didactic education in the modality related to the desired temporary post-primary license and eight (8) hours of Category “A” didactic training in cross-sectional anatomy. These hours must have been earned within the 24-month period directly preceding submission of the application. 

 (B) The Board may require confirmation of clinical supervision and clinical practice site, and may limit the temporary post-primary licensee to one or more specific practice sites; 

 (C) The Board may require confirmation that the applicant is eligible for credentialing in the new modality, if the relevant clinical experience requirements are met, and may deny an application based upon a lack of evidence of eligibility. 

 (2) The Board, at its discretion and upon a showing of good cause, upon written request submitted to the Board, may extend specific deadlines established in this rule to a later specified date, based upon a demonstration of compelling circumstances by the individual making the request for an extension. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 688.555 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 688.520 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMI 1-2024, adopt filed 02/02/2024, effective 02/02/2024 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
