



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 210 REGISTERED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-210-0620 
 Furniture and Equipment for Infants and Toddlers 
 
 (1)    A provider must provide an individual crib, portable crib, or play yard for each infant. 
(a)    Each crib, portable crib, or play yard must: 
(A)    Comply with Consumer Product Safety Commission(CPSC) standards for use by infants and have documentation from the manufacturer or retailer stating that either the crib was manufactured after June 28, 2011 or the play yard was manufactured after February 28, 2013; 
(B)    Have a firm, flat, non-inclined sleep surface; 
(C)    Have a clean, firm, tight-fitting mattress. The mattress must: 
(i)    Be designed to fit the specific equipment used, with no gap between the mattress and sides of the product; 
(ii)    Be covered in a durable, washable, waterproof, form-fitting material; 
(iii)    Be firm enough that it maintains its shape and does not indent or conform to the shape of the infant’s head; and 
(iv)    Be covered in a tight-fitting sheet that remains tightly-fitted with normal use and does not have any slack or bunching. 

 (b)    Bassinets are prohibited.  
(c)    Stacking, wall, or modular cribs are prohibited.   
(d)    Sheets must be changed when soiled, before use by another child, and at a minimum of once a week.   

 (2)    Crib bumper pads must not be on the premises of a registered family child care home.   
(3)    To support traditional indigenous practices, a provider may allow cradleboards or other traditional indigenous sleep equipment to be used as a sleep surface for infants. Caregivers must be careful to not over-bundle or overheat an infant while using the equipment.   
(4)    If a provider uses high chairs, the chairs must comply with current Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) standards and have:   
(a)    A broad base to prevent tipping;   
(b)    A latch to keep a child from raising the tray; and   
(c)    T-shaped straps or a guard to prevent a child from becoming entrapped or sliding out.  
(5)    If a provider uses clip-on chairs, the chairs must have straps to prevent a child from sliding out.  
(6)    A provider must provide a variety and adequate supply of developmentally appropriate materials that are stimulating to a child’s senses. Materials must not be a choking hazard including toys and removable parts with a diameter less than 1-¼ inches, plastic bags, Styrofoam, and rubber or latex balloons. 

 (7)    A provider may not use the following equipment for infants, which have been identified as unsafe for infants by the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) and the American Academy of Pediatrics:  
(a)    Baby walkers, which are devices that allow an infant to sit inside and are equipped with rollers or wheels and move across the floor; 
(b)    Baby doorway jumpers, which are devices that allow an infant to bounce while supported in a seat by an elastic "bungee cord" suspended from a doorway;  
(c)    Accordion safety gates; and 
(d)    Unstructured infant slings or wraps.  
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.330 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 140-2024, adopt filed 12/11/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
