



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 305 CERTIFIED CHILD CARE CENTERS 
 414-305-0920 
 Outdoor Play Areas 
 
 (1)    A certified child care center must provide an outdoor play area that children can reach safely.  
(2)    If an outdoor play area is not connected to or in direct control of the certified child care center, such as a public park or school, the center must have a written plan, approved by CCLD, that describes how the center will maintain the safety of the children in care. The written plan must include the following: 
(a)    Distance the alternate outdoor play area is located from the center; 
(b)    Detailed description of how the children, including infants and toddlers, will reach the alternate area; 
(c)    Neighborhood and outdoor play area circumstances, hazards, and risks;  
(d)    Availability of appropriate equipment with fall zones and protective surfacing; 
(e)    Verification that parents have been made aware that their children will be using an alternate outside play area and its location; 
(f)    Safeguards the center will be taking in order to ensure children are properly supervised while traveling to and from and while using the space;  
(g)    Nature of other activities and persons who may be sharing the space; 
(h)    Availability of restroom facilities; and  
(i)    Ability to obtain assistance if needed when injury or illness occurs. 
(3)    A certified child care center must keep outdoor play areas free of litter, animal waste, solid waste and refuse, ditches, or other conditions presenting a potential hazard. 
(4)    The outdoor play areas used by children not yet attending kindergarten must be enclosed by a building, wall or fence that is intended to prevent children from exiting and discourages climbing. 
(a)    The wall or fence must begin at ground level, be at least 4 feet high, and maintained in a stable, secure, and upright condition. Centers with certification in effect on July 15, 2001, must comply with a barrier at least 3 feet high until such time as the existing barrier is replaced.  
(b)    The openings in the fence and gates must be no larger than 3½ inches. Centers with certification if effect on January 1, 2024, must comply with no more than 4 inches of open spacing in fences until the existing fence is replaced. 
(c)    Barriers such as plastic contractor’s fencing may be used on a temporary basis to prevent children from accessing an immediate hazard. If this type of fencing is used, it must be supported with wood or metal fence posts. 
(5)    A certified child care center must ensure that use zones in which a child falling or exiting from play equipment are: 
(a)    A minimum of 6 feet of clearance from walkways, buildings and the external perimeter of equipment;  
(b)    Free of obstacles, other than the equipment itself, that a child could run into or fall on;  
(c)    Arranged to prevent hazards from conflicting activities; 
(d)    Extended at least 6 feet in all directions from the equipment perimeter unless the fall potential in that direction is minimal, such as play equipment with guardrails or barriers or the sides of swings;  
(e)    Allowing for single-axis swings that move forward and backward, to extend a minimum distance of twice the vertical distance from the pivot point to the protective surface to the front and rear of the swing midpoint;  
(f)    Allowing for bucket swings and swings secured by a bar or strap and used by 2-year-olds or younger, with the use zone extending at least 6 feet forward and backward from the swing midpoint; 
(g)    Allowing for multi-axis swings, such as tire swings that move in a circle, to extend 6 feet plus the distance of the height of the top of the swing set to the bottom on the swing’s seat in every direction from the midpoint. At least a 30-inch clearance between a fully extended tire swing seat and the support structure is required. 
(6)    A certified child care center must always maintain protective surfacing in use zones under and around all outdoor equipment of 18 inches or higher. Acceptable materials include wood mulch, double shredded bark mulch, shredded or recycled rubber, uniform wood chips, sand, pea gravel, rubber mats or poured in place rubber manufactured for such use. Hog fuel is not permitted.  
(a)    Rubber mats and poured in place rubber must: 
(A)    Be tested to ASTM F1292; 
(B)    Be installed and maintained according to manufacturer’s specifications; and  
(C)    Not have rips, tears, loose seams, or other conditions that may pose a hazard. 
(b)    Loose-fill materials must: 
(A)    Have a minimum depth of 9 inches if using loose-fill material other than shredded/recycled rubber or 6 inches if using shredded/recycled rubber; 
(B)    Remain loose at the required depth by replacing, leveling, or raking the material; and   
(C)    Not be installed over concrete or asphalt.  
(7)    A certified child care center must securely anchor any non-portable piece of climbing or swinging equipment according to manufacturer’s instructions. 
(8)    A certified child care center must provide a shaded area accessible to children in the outdoor play areas. Shade may be provided by trees, buildings, or shade structures. 
(9)    The play equipment is arranged to allow for an open, continuous, uninterrupted, and unobstructed area. 
(10)    Trampolines, other than rebounders, are prohibited. Rebounders are permitted only when used according to manufacturer’s instructions. 
(11)    Inflatable equipment such as: bounce houses, moon walkers, and giant slides, etc., are permitted when used according to manufacturer’s instructions. Staff must be physically positioned to respond if needed. 
(12)    A certified child care center must provide outdoor gross motor equipment that addresses a variety of skills (for example, climbing, balancing, throwing, catching, pedaling, and steering).   
(13)    A certified child care center must ensure each child, while on the premises, using a bicycle, tricycle, balance bike, scooter, skateboard, roller or in-line skates, wears a well-fitting helmet, whether indoors or outdoors. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 45-2024, minor correction filed 04/12/2024, effective 04/12/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELD 10-2023, adopt filed 06/28/2023, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
