



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Nursing 
 Chapter 851 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 31 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS FOR NURSES 
 851-031-0001 
 Name, Address and Employer of Record 
 
 (1) Name of Record: 
(a) A licensee of the Board must establish and keep his/her current legal name on file with the Board at all times. 
(b) The name currently on file with the Board must be considered the name of record. 
(c) At the time of a name change, the licensee must send a signed, written notification of change of name to the Board, accompanied by legal proof of that name change. Legal proof must be in the form of official records such as a birth certificate, marriage certificate, valid state identification or passport, or a court order/decree. 
(d) Upon receipt of notification and legal proof of name change, the Board will change its records to reflect the licensee's name change. 
(e) The name of record must be the same name used for nursing practice. Licensees must continue to sign nursing documents under the legal name on the license until the Board effects a change to the license. 
(2) Address of Record: 
(a) Licensee must keep his/her current mailing address and e-mail on file with the Board at all times. 
(b) The mailing address and e-mail address currently on file with the Board is considered the address of record. 
(c) The Board will send the Board Newsletters and all correspondence, including license renewal notices, to the licensee's e-mail address of record. Failure to receive notification of upcoming licensure renewal must not be justification for any untimely renewal. 
(d) A Notice of Proposed Disciplinary Action sent to the licensee at the licensee's mailing address of record by certified mail or registered mail, is sufficient notice even if the licensee fails to, or refuses to, respond to the postal service "return receipt" or never receives the notice due to failure to update address of record. Such mailing permits the Board to proceed with disciplinary action in the absence of a request for a hearing. 
(3) Employer of Record: Any licensed nurse actively practicing nursing must report his/her current nursing employer(s) and employer’s mailing address(es) to the Board. All employers, where the licensed nurse is working within his/her given scope of practice, must be reported. Each change in employer and employer’s mailing address must be submitted to the Board no later than 30 days after the change. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 678.150 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 678.150 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BN 6-2021, adopt filed 06/21/2021, effective 07/01/2021 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
