



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Finance and Securities Regulation - Chapter 441 
 
 
 
 
 Division 735 PAYDAY AND TITLE LENDING 
 441-735-0140 
 Records and Files Required to Be Kept at Servicing Office; Copies of Loans Transferred; Centralized Accounting Office Exception 
 
 (1) A licensee must maintain the accounting records and loan files for active loans at the licensed office where the loans are serviced.  (2) Whenever an active loan is for any reason transferred to another licensed office in this state, the licensee must retain in the transferring office an exact copy of the individual account record and supporting legal documents.  (3) Whenever an active loan is for any reason transferred to another licensed office, the licensee must retain in the transferring office an exact copy of the account record to which has been added the date of transfer and the name and address of the new location of the account. However, if a bulk sale or similar transfer of loans not in the ordinary course of business is made to another licensed office, the licensee may, with the prior approval of the director, make other provisions for the retention of copies of records and files and for the examination of accounts in the receiving office.  (4) Whenever the licensee sends an active loan to a collection agency, the licensee must retain in the originating office the original record or an exact copy of the account record.  (5) Notwithstanding sections (1) through (4) of this rule, a licensee may, with the prior approval of the director, maintain the accounting records and loan files for active loans at a location other than the servicing office if:  (a) The other location is established by the licensee to provide centralized accounting for one or more licensed offices;  (b) Off-site maintenance of the records and files will not hinder prompt servicing of the loans by the servicing offices;  (c) The director, and any duly appointed examiners or agents of the director, have the right of free access to the records and files of the licensee at the other location; and  (d) The other location provides adequate security for the licensee's records and files. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 725A.092 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 725A.052 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 2-2012, f. & cert. ef. 7-23-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 7-2010, f. & cert. ef. 6-4-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
