



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 68 IDENTIFICATION, NOTIFICATION, SALE AND EXCHANGE, CLEARING TITLE, OR RESERVATION OF HISTORICALLY FILLED LANDS, AND APPROVAL TO CREATE, SELL, EXCHANGE OR RESERVE NEW LANDS 
 141-068-0100 
 Permission to Create New Lands 
 
 (1) Pursuant to ORS 274.920, no one other than the United States, while engaged in the promotion of navigation, shall artificially create new lands by fill or deposit upon submersible or submerged lands without the approval of the owner of such lands and the owner of the adjoining or opposite upland on the same side of the body of water.  (2) Any person requesting to create new lands from state-owned submerged and submersible lands shall meet with Department staff to discuss the proposed project and use before submitting an application to the Department. This meeting may be in person or through other means acceptable to the Department. The Department may invite other government entities to take part in a pre-application meeting.  (3) Any person requesting to create new lands from state-owned submerged and submersible lands shall apply for permission to create the new lands.  (4) The application fee for requesting to create new lands is $1,000 per application. A single application may include multiple contiguous land parcels.  (5) An application to create new lands shall be circulated to affected local, state, and federal agencies; holders of valid authorizations granted by the Department in the requested area; any local port district, any local federally recognized tribes, any local watershed councils, national estuary program and soil and water districts, and other interested persons. As a part of this review, the Department will specifically request comments concerning:  (a) The presence, type and location of state or federally listed threatened and endangered species (including threatened, endangered, candidate and sensitive species), and archeological and historic resources within the lands;  (b) Current or historic use of the lands for fishing or recreation;  (c) Existing public access to the water from lands, road, or right of way across the lands;  (d) Importance of the lands to existing or future navigational needs.  (6) The Department may waive the circulation requirement described in OAR 141-068-0100(5) if the action or development has been previously reviewed by the listed agencies and other interested persons, and the results are documented by the Department.  (7) The Department may post a notice of an application and opportunity to comment at a local government building, public library, or other appropriate locations in order to ensure that minority and low-income communities are included and aware of a proposed action. The Department shall make paper copies of an application available to any person upon request.  (8) A request to create new lands may be taken to the State Land Board for review and approval. If a request for approval is submitted to the State Land Board, then the Department shall provide findings and a recommendation for the Board’s consideration. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 273 & 274 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 274.905-274.956 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-12-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2016, f. 5-13-16, cert. ef. 6-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
