



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-1140 
 Meals and Snacks 
 
 (1) Meals and snacks for children must be: 
(a) Prepared on site; 
(b) Obtained from an approved source as specified in OAR 333-150-0000; or 
(c) Provided by parents.  
(2) A certified ONB program must ensure that all meals, snacks and beverages follow the current USDA Child and Adult Care Food Program (USDA-CACFP) meal pattern requirements, including portion sizes.  
(3) A certified ONB program must develop weekly or monthly written menus that show all foods to be served during that period and make the menus available to parents.  
(a) Substitutions that meet nutritional requirements are permitted but must be recorded and made available to parents. 
(b) Menus may be rotated if there is a record of which menu was used for each date. 
(4) A certified ONB program must select and serve food that is safe and has nutritional value. 
(a) Foods of minimal nutritional value, such as gelatin or desserts, may only be served occasionally and cannot replace nutritious foods. 
(b) All food products served by the certified ONB program or brought from individual homes for a group of children must have been inspected and come from commercial suppliers, except for: 
(A) Fresh or frozen fruits and vegetables; and 
(B) Foods brought by parents and only consumed by their child. 
(c) The certified ONB program must serve beverages consisting only of water, milk or nutritionally equivalent milk substitute, and fruit or vegetable juice. 
(A) Fruit and vegetable juice must be pasteurized 100 percent juice.  
(B) Milk must be Grade A pasteurized and fortified milk. 
(C) Pasteurized powdered milk and evaporated milk must only be used in cooking. 
(D) A parent may request that their child not be served milk. A certified ONB program must obtain written parental permission to not serve milk to a specific child. This must be at the parent’s request, on a case-by-case basis, and not an ONB program-wide policy. 
(d) The following foods must not be served or offered in uncooked food, or served or offered in a ready-to-eat form:   
(A) Raw animal foods such as raw fish, raw meat or raw eggs; 
(B) Partially cooked animal food such as lightly cooked fish, rare meat, soft cooked eggs and meringue;   
(C) Raw seed sprouts; 
(D) Home canned food;  
(E) Eggs laid by chickens as part of the certified ONB program; 
(F) Food additives and preservatives that are not FDA approved. 
(e) Preschool-age children may be served the following foods associated with young children's choking incidents provided that the foods are cut in such a way as to minimize choking hazard.  These foods include, but are not limited to: hot dog slices, raw carrots, grapes, hard candy, gum, nuts, peanuts, popcorn, rice cakes, chips, gel candies, and marshmallows. 
(f) Nutrient concentrates and supplements (protein powders, liquid proteins, vitamins, minerals, and other nonfood substances) must not be served to a child without a written statement of parental consent and written instructions from a medical practitioner.  
(g) Special diets, not including vegetarian diets, may only be served to a child with written instructions from a registered dietician or medical practitioner and written parental consent. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
