



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 333 PSILOCYBIN 
 333-333-4520 
 Client Bill of Rights 
 
 (1) A service center must post the following “Client Bill of Rights” in a prominent location within the licensed premises and must provide every client with a copy during their preparation session: 

 
 “ Clients receiving psilocybin services in Oregon have the following rights: 

 To be treated with dignity and respect while receiving psilocybin services. 

 To receive competent and equitable care consistent with values, policies, and practices that ensure all people, especially those who have been historically marginalized based on race, ethnicity, religion, language, disability, age, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, social class, intersections among these communities or identities, or other socially determined circumstances are considered in the development of social pathways to health equity. 

 To be free from physical, sexual, psychological, and financial abuse before, during, and after receiving psilocybin services. 

 To make decisions without coercion or undue influence. To be informed of the known benefits and risks associated with psilocybin services. 

 To refuse psilocybin services prior to beginning an administration session. 

 To privacy and confidentiality regarding participation in psilocybin services. 

 To refuse to release any information to third parties, except as required by law. Information may be required to be released by law when a client initiates a complaint, when communications reveal an intent to cause harm to others or disclose that a minor may have been a victim of abuse, or when responding to an investigation by the Oregon Health Authority. 

 To full disclosure of any facilitator conflicts of interest. 

 To a full and accurate explanation of the costs associated with receiving psilocybin services before receiving those services. 

 To store personal belongings securely while receiving psilocybin services. 

 To access their client records after providing reasonable notice to a facilitator or service center and to correct information that is inaccurate. 

 To request a private space in which to receive psilocybin services. 

 To be monitored and supported by a licensed facilitator for the duration of psilocybin services until it is safe for the client to leave the service center. 

 To receive psilocybin services from a licensed facilitator for the duration of those services, except in cases of emergency. 

 To access service centers and psilocybin services that are welcoming and accessible to people with disabilities. 

 To have access to a clean, single occupancy restroom for the duration of psilocybin services. 

 To discuss this Bill of Rights with licensed facilitators and service center operators without facing discrimination or retaliation. 

 To report violations of this Bill of Rights to the Oregon Health Authority, or other appropriate governing body, without facing discrimination or retaliation . 

 To withdraw or alter my consent to receive psilocybin services at any time prior to beginning an administration session. 

 To withdraw or alter my consent to release information. 

 To receive information regarding culturally and linguistically responsive services offered to support client safety. 

 To receive services in a manner that considers my individual conditions, sensitivities and health concerns. 

 To be fully informed of a service center’s policies on possession of firearms and other weapons on the licensed premises. 

 To make complaints to the Oregon Health Authority regarding psilocybin products and services. 

 To choose their facilitator and request an opportunity to receive psilocybin services from an alternate facilitator. Facilitators and service centers may decline services to a client for any reason. ” 
 

 (2) The text of the Client Bill of Rights may not be altered and must be printed in an easily legible font. 

 (3) A facilitator or service center must provide the Client Bill of Rights in other languages or accessible formats upon a client’s request. 

 (4) A facilitator or service center must provide the Client Bill of Rights to a client prior to a preparation session upon the client’s request. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 475A.235 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 475A.235 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 21-2025, amend filed 10/24/2025, effective 01/01/2026 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 82-2024, amend filed 11/22/2024, effective 01/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 58-2023, amend filed 12/21/2023, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 206-2022, adopt filed 12/27/2022, effective 12/27/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
