



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Finance and Securities Regulation - Chapter 441 
 
 
 
 
 Division 735 PAYDAY AND TITLE LENDING 
 441-735-0120 
 Account Record to Be Maintained for Each Loan 
 
 (1) The licensee must maintain a separate individual account record for each loan made to any borrower showing:  (a) The loan number;  (b) The date of the loan;  (c) The name and address of the borrower;  (d) A brief description of the security, if any;  (e) The agreed interest rate or rates and the amount of each charge, if any;  (f) The terms of repayment, including the expiration date of the loan, and any modifications of the terms.  (g) The amount of each payment made on the loan and in accordance with sections (2) and (3) of this rule, how the payment is allotted to principal, interest and charges;  (h) The date of the final entry when the loan is paid in full or otherwise finally settled or closed; and  (i) A clear, brief explanation of any other entries that result in the reduction or addition to the principal balance or interest.  (2) The account record for a daily interest loan must show, for each loan payment received:  (a) The amount, if any, applied to interest;  (b) The date to which the interest is paid;  (c) If payment is insufficient to pay interest to date, the dollar amount short;  (d) The amount applied to principal, if any; and  (e) The unpaid principal balance of the loan, if any.  (3) The account record for a payday loan or title loan must show the date each loan is renewed, the amount of the charge the borrower paid and the new due date of the loan.  (4) All entries to the account record made by the licensee must be accurate and posted by close of business on the day the transaction occurred. If the licensee is unable to post a transaction as required by this section, the posting when made must reflect the actual date of the transaction. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 725A.092 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 725A.052 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 2-2012, f. & cert. ef. 7-23-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 7-2010, f. & cert. ef. 6-4-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
