



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 280 OREGON RENTAL HOME HEAT PUMP PROGRAM 
 330-280-0020 
 Contractor Eligibility 
 
 (1) In order to participate in the program, a contractor must meet the eligibility requirements provided in these rules. Once the Department has confirmed a contractor’s eligibility, the contractor will receive login credentials to use the software system designated by the Department to receive and track reservation applications. 

 (2) The Department may begin accepting contractor registrations May 1, 2023. The Department may continue to accept new contractor registrations throughout the duration of the program until all funds allocated to the program have been spent or the sunset of the program, whichever comes first. 

 (3) A contractor must meet the eligibility requirements listed below and submit appropriate documentation to the Department. The Department shall verify the completeness and accuracy of information submitted by a contractor as part of the contractor registration process. 

 (a) A contractor that installs a heat pump, or a subcontractor that installs a heat pump on behalf of a contractor that offers heat pumps for sale, must hold any license, bond, insurance, or permit required to sell and install the heat pump. The contractor or any subcontractor performing the installation must maintain all applicable licenses, bonds, insurance or permits required throughout the installation period until the installation of the heat pump is complete. 

 (b) The contractor must have an active license with the Construction Contractors Board and no Construction Contractors Board disciplinary actions for the two years prior to the rebate reservation request. 

 (c) If applicable, the contractor must have proof of Workers’ Compensation Insurance Coverage and have not been issued a non-complying employer order in the two years prior to the rebate reservation request. 

 (d) The contractor must either have no Occupational Safety and Health Division violations for the two years prior to the rebate reservation request or demonstrate having paid any fines and abated any violations. 

 (e) The contractor must demonstrate a history of compliance with the administrative rules and requirements of the Bureau of Labor and Industries by meeting the following requirements: 

 (A) Have no final order determinations from the Labor Commissioner for the two years prior to the rebate reservation request; and 

 (B) Be absent from the list of contractors maintained by the Bureau of Labor and Industries that are ineligible to receive public works contracts. 

 (4) The Department reserves the right to verify all applicable licenses, bonds, insurance, and permits of a contractor at any time. 

 (5) The Department shall verify a contractor’s compliance with the Construction Contractors Board, Occupational Safety and Health Division, Bureau of Labor and Industries, and if applicable, Workers’ Compensation Division, prior to approving or denying a rebate reservation request. Evidence that a contractor has paid any fines and abated any violations shall not require verification with the Occupational Safety and Health Division. Failure to comply shall result in a denial of the rebate reservation. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Oregon Laws 2022, Chapter 86 (Senate Bill 1536) & ORS 469.040 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Oregon Laws 2022, Chapter 86 (Senate Bill 1536) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 2-2024, amend filed 04/30/2024, effective 05/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 2-2023, adopt filed 04/17/2023, effective 04/18/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
