



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 235 SCHOOL ADMINISTRATOR LICENSES 
 584-235-0060 
 Emergency Administrator License 
 
 (1) Purpose of the License: An Emergency Administrator License qualifies its holder to carry out the responsibilities of an administrator in an Oregon school district. The Emergency Administrator License is issued to persons who demonstrated adequate qualifications to receive an administrator license on an emergency basis. The purpose of the Emergency Administrator License is to provide a school district with a licensed administrator, on an emergency basis, if the school district demonstrates urgent circumstances that merit the issuance of the license to protect the district’s programs or students. The Emergency Administrator License is designed for short-term licensure only and may not continue once the emergency has been remedied. 

 (2) District Sponsorship: The Emergency Administrator License requires district sponsorship. The sponsoring district must submit a statement: 

 (a) Explaining the urgent circumstances that constitute the emergency and how the qualifications of the applicant will resolve the emergency; 

 (b) Verifying the urgent circumstances that prevents hiring of a suitable administrator who holds an unrestricted administrator license appropriate for the assignment to be filled; 

 (c) Assuring the Commission that the district will obtain the license prior to assignment within the district; and 

 (d) Requesting and identifying the least amount of time necessary to meet the emergency needs of the district. 

 (3) Assignment Authorization: The Emergency Administrator License qualifies the administrator to accept within the sponsoring district any administrative assignment within the scope and responsibilities of School Administrators under OAR 584-235-0010. 

 (4) Granting of License:   The Emergency Administrator License shall be issued solely at the discretion of the Executive Director, or the Director of Licensure, for any length of time deemed necessary to protect the district’s programs or students. 

 (a) In most cases, an Emergency Administrator License will not exceed one year unless the educator or the district has presented unusual extenuating circumstances. 

 (b) The Executive Director, or the Director of Licensure, may consider efforts the educator has made in meeting licensure requirements. Additionally, the Executive Director, or the Director of Licensure, will consider academic preparation or experience the proposed educator has had in the area in which the district is requesting the license. 

 (c) Generally, failure to meet renewal requirements does not constitute an emergency or extenuating circumstances. 

 (d) In most cases, an Emergency Administrator License will expire on June 30 of the academic year in which the license was granted regardless of the term for licensure. Extending the license beyond the June 30 expiration date is at the discretion of the Executive Director or Director of Licensure after considering all extenuating circumstances. 

 (e) The Emergency Administrator License is not renewable and not subject to the 120-day grace period. 

 (f) It is the applicant’s responsibility to apply for the subsequent license in a timely manner to ensure that the applicant remains properly licensed. The applicant must submit a new application, including all required fees, for the subsequent license. 

 (g) The following situations are not eligible for an Emergency Administrator License: 

 (A) Renewal applications within the 120 days grace period; or 

 (B) Applications that include requests for Emergency Administrator Licenses due to the applicant’s failure to meet renewal or upgrade requirements such as required coursework or professional development. 

 (5) To be eligible for the Emergency Administrator License, an applicant must provide the following: 

 (a) Provide a statement from the sponsoring district in accordance with subsection (2) of this rule; 

 (b) Complete a background clearance that includes: 

 (A) Furnishing fingerprints (if necessary); 

 (B) Providing satisfactory responses to character questions in the form and manner prescribed by the Commission; and 

 (c) Submit a complete and correct application in the form and manner required by the Commission, including payment of all required fees as provided in OAR 584-200-0050. 

 (d) An applicant may be asked to provide a resume, official transcripts or other evidence of qualifications if requested by the Executive Director or Director of Licensure. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342.165 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.121, ORS 342.125 & ORS 342.143 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 6-2023, adopt filed 02/07/2023, effective 03/01/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
