



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 360 CERTIFIED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-360-1400 
 Animals 
 
 (1)    A provider must ensure that any animal accessible to child care children is: 
(a)    In good health and shows no signs of carrying disease; 
(b)    Friendly toward children with no signs or history of aggression; 
(c)    Kept free of fleas, ticks, and worms; 
(d)    Fully immunized according to a licensed veterinarian's recommendations, including rabies vaccinations for dogs. Proof of current compliance with immunizations shall be kept on file in the home; and 
(e)    Kept in a cage or tank with the exception of cats and dogs. 
(2)    All animals shall be kept away from food preparation surfaces. If animals have access to food preparation surfaces, the surfaces shall be cleaned and sanitized prior to meal preparation. 
(3)    A provider may not allow an animal with any history of biting to be in child care activity areas during operating hours or while child care children are present. 
(4)    A provider must take precautions when encountering any animals unfamiliar to the caregivers, such as a stray. 
(5)    A provider may allow an animal, other than a cat or dog, such as a poisonous animal, reptile, amphibian, monkey, hook-beaked bird, chicken, duck, hermit crab, rodent or ferret on the premises only if: 
(a)    The animal is housed in and remains in a cage, tank or other measure which precludes any direct contact by children; or 
(b)    The animal is present as part of an educational program run by a zoo, museum or another professional animal handler. 
(6)    A provider must ensure that all contact between an animal and a child is supervised by caregivers who are close enough to remove the child immediately if the animal shows signs of aggression or distress or the child shows signs of treating the animal inappropriately.  
(7)    Parents must be made aware of the presence of any animals on the premises. 
(8)    A provider must have and follow written procedures for the care and maintenance of the animals. 
(9)   Animal waste items such as litter boxes and pet training pads shall not be located in areas accessible to children or areas used for food storage or preparation. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 138-2024, adopt filed 12/11/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
