



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 264 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS 
 333-264-0090 
 Clinical and Field Requirements for EMT, AEMT, and Paramedic Courses 
 
 (1) For purposes of this rule: 

 (a) "AMBULANCE CALL" means an advanced life support, prehospital emergency medical services response which includes dispatch, scene response, and participation in specific assessment skills required of a licensed paramedic while riding in the patient compartment of an ambulance. 

 (b) "EMS CALL" means an advanced life support, prehospital emergency medical services response which includes dispatch, scene response, and participation in specific assessment skills required of a licensed paramedic, but does not include transport of a patient to a hospital. 

 (2) Clinical experience and field experience are required for EMT and AEMT courses. 

 (3) Clinical experience is required for a paramedic course where skills within the Paramedic scope of practice are performed under direct visual supervision. 

 (4)  Students participating in direct patient contact in a clinical setting, as defined by OAR 409-030-0140, must: 

 (a) Meet the requirements for immunizations, screenings, training, and background checks as prescribed in OAR 409-030-0170 through 409-030-0230; and 

 (b) Be covered under liability and insurance coverage as described in OAR 409-030-0240. 

 (5) Site selection for clinical experience and site selection for field experience must include: 

 (a) A clear link to course learning objectives and student performance outcomes; and 

 (b) Opportunities for students to perform assessments and interventions in acute and emergency care settings. 

 (c) In addition, site selection should include opportunities for students to engage with diverse cultures, ethnicities, races, patient populations, and contexts. 

 (6)(a) In addition to clinical experience, a student enrolled in a Paramedic course must participate in a field internship with a preceptor at an advanced life support ambulance service that operates within a 911 system. 

 (b) The field internship must: 

 (A) Provide the student opportunities to synthesize the knowledge, skills, and judgments necessary to perform the duties of an entry-level Paramedic. 

 (B) Require a student to conduct patient assessments required of a licensed paramedic in at least 40 EMS or AMBULANCE CALLS with no less than eight each in cardiac, respiratory, general medical and trauma emergencies, and with at least 30 of the calls being AMBULANCE CALLS. 

 (7) Paramedic students participating in a field internship must be assigned to a preceptor who has a minimum of one year of prehospital care experience actively performing at or above the scope of practice for a licensed paramedic. It is the responsibility of the educational institution to: 

 (a) Ensure the preceptor is licensed and in good standing with the applicable state licensing authority; and 

 (b) Orient the preceptor to the student requirements for successful completion of the field internship in the Paramedic course. 

 (8) The 2023 Student Minimum Competency Recommendations described by the Committee on Accreditation for the EMS Professions (CoAEMSP) model specific student competencies, patient ages, and patient conditions for clinical experience and a field internship in a Paramedic course. 

 (9) The educational institution must have a plan for any clinical experience, field experience, or field internship that: 

 (a) Is approved by the course EMS medical director and reviewed annually for effectiveness; 

 (b) Includes current written agreements for all clinical sites and field services; and 

 (c) Includes learning objectives for each clinical experience, field experience, and field internship and provide them to the students. 

 (10) A non-educational institution approved to conduct an EMT course must comply with section (5) of this rule. 

 (11) A student participating in clinical experience, field experience or a field internship shall not be considered one of the minimum staff at the facility or service. 

 (12) A student must demonstrate technical proficiency in the classroom with isolated skills relevant to the clinical site, field experience, or field internship before they may participate in the direct care of patients. 

 (13)(a) During clinical experience or field experience , a student must perform skills under the direct visual supervision of licensed clinical staff at or above the level for which the student is in training. 

 (b) During a field internship, a Paramedic student must perform skills under the direct visual supervision of a preceptor. 

 (14) A student may not perform skills outside the scope of practice of their current Oregon EMS provider license when outside of scheduled course activities including, clinical experience, field experience, or field internship. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 682.017 & ORS 682.208 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 682.017, ORS 682.208 & ORS 682.216 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 78-2024, adopt filed 10/31/2024, effective 11/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
