



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
   Temporary rule language in effect until 10/19/2026. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 149 GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO PUBLIC CONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION SERVICES 
 736-149-0385 
 Identical Bids; Preference for Oregon Goods and Services 
 
 (1) Award When Bids are Identical: If the department receives bids determined identical in price (“identical bids”), and chooses to issue an award, the department will issue the award based on the following order of precedence: 

 (a) Oregon Bidder: The department will issue an award to the bidder offering goods manufactured in Oregon or whose main corporate office or primary business location is in Oregon. If the department receives identical bids from more than one bidder offering goods manufactured in Oregon or whose main corporate office or primary business location is in Oregon, the department will issue an award by drawing lots from among those bidders offering goods manufactured in Oregon or whose main corporate office or primary business location is in Oregon that submitted the identical bids. 

 (b) COBID Certified Bidders: The department will issue an award to a certification office for business inclusion and diversity (COBID) certified minority, women, emerging small business (MWESB) or veteran owned business. If multiple COBID certified bidders exist, department will issue an award by drawing lots from among those COBID certified bidders who submitted the identical bids. 

 (c) No Applicable Preferences: If department receives identical bids, and none of the identical bids include goods manufactured in Oregon or a bidder with a main corporate office or primary business location in Oregon, and none of the bidders are COBID certified bidders, then OPRD will issue an award by drawing lots from among bidders that submitted the identical bids. 

 (2) Procedure for Drawing Lots: When drawing of lots, the department will provide notice of the date, time of the drawing of lots to bidders who submitted identical bids. The department will draw lots by a procedure that affords each bidder subject to the drawing a substantially equal probability of selection and that does not allow the person making the selection the opportunity to manipulate the drawing to increase the probability of selecting one bidder over any other bidder. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279.025(3)(k) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279.025(3)(k) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 2-2026, temporary adopt filed 04/23/2026, effective 04/24/2026 through 10/19/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
