



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 210 REGISTERED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-210-0150 
 Registration Process 
 
 (1)    A provider must comply with the conditions of the registration when admitting children, including, but not limited to, capacity, hours of operation, age range, and special conditions.  
(2)     If an applicant or a registered family child care provider is also a certified foster care parent, they must inform CCLD. CCLD may communicate with  the Oregon Department of Human Services (ODHS) regarding the child care license. 
(3)    A provider must allow representatives of all agencies involved in licensing process to have immediate access to all areas of the home and premises when child care children are present, including:  
(a)    Areas deemed inaccessible to children, including rooms not typically used for child care, second floors and other structures on the premises;   
(b)    Records of children enrolled in the registered family child care home, and all records and reports related to the child care operation regarding compliance with these rules as required in OAR 414-210-0255; and   
(c)    All caregivers.  
(4)   If there is a structural or maintenance problem or remodeling that CCLD determines could present a health or safety hazard to children, CCLD may request that the provider have the home inspected by the appropriate authority and the provider shall comply with the request. The provider must provide CCLD with a copy of the inspection report from such authority immediately upon receipt. 

 (5) A registered family child care registration may be denied, suspended or revoked if the provider has been removed, denied or suspended from the CBR.  
(6)    If a complaint alleges that a provider is not in compliance with these rules, CCLD will conduct an investigation and assessment as provided in OAR 414-075-0130.    
(7)    CCLD may conduct unannounced monitoring visits of a registered family child care at least annually for the purpose of determining compliance with these rules and terms and conditions of registration. 
(8)    In connection with a monitoring or investigation visit, CCLD may offer technical assistance when appropriate to assist a provider in complying with these rules and provide technical assistance when requested by the provider. 
(9)    Information provided by or on behalf of the provider to CCLD on applications, in records or reports, or any other written or verbal communication must be current, complete, and accurate.   
(10)    Parental request or permission to waive any of the rules applicable to a registered family child care does not give a provider permission to do so.  
(11)    CCLD registration records are open to the public on request, including findings of complaint investigations. However, information protected by state or federal law and the names of children and adults will not be disclosed.  
(12)    To determine if requirements are met, a provider may be required to supply additional information or permit CCLD, a fire marshal, or a public health official to assess the home and review child care records. 
(13)    The name, address, telephone number, and registration status of providers is public information. However, CCLD may withhold from the public a provider's address and telephone number if the provider makes a written request documenting that disclosure of the address and/or telephone number would endanger them or a family member living in the home (OAR 137-004-0800). The request must be on a form supplied by CCLD. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.330 & ORS 329A.390 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 140-2024, adopt filed 12/11/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
