



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 210 REGISTERED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-210-0610 
 Feeding Infants and Toddlers 
 
 (1)    A provider must ensure that children under 12 months of age shall comply with the following requirements for those children:  
(a)    A provider must have and follow a written feeding plan and schedule that includes the types and amounts of formula, human milk, and food that is obtained from the child’s parent(s) and updated regularly.  
(b)    A provider must feed the child on their own feeding schedule and fed when hungry.  
(c)    A provider must clearly mark formula, human milk, bottles, and food provided by the parent(s) with the child's full name and date and refrigerate if required.  
(d)    A provider may not give infant formula to an infant who consumes human milk, without parental consent.  
(e)    A provider must give human milk only to the child specified to receive it by the parent(s).  
(f)    Human milk must:  
(A)    Be labeled with the child's full name and the date expressed;  
(B)    Be stored for no more than:  
(i)    24 hours in the refrigerator when thawed or defrosting; or  
(ii)    Six months from the expression date in the freezer.  
(C)    Be refrigerated or frozen until immediately before warming; and  
(D)    Not reused after 2 hours from serving.  
(g)    When formula is served, the caregiver must follow the manufacturer's instructions for mixing, storing, and discarding of any formula, unless requested by the child’s parent(s) and with a medical practitioner’s written permission.  
(h)    Whole milk, skim milk, 1 percent milk, and 2 percent milk must not be served unless requested by the child's parent(s) and with a medical practitioner’s written permission.  
(i)    A provider must not serve juice of any kind to infants, unless advised by a medical practitioner.  
(j)    When bottle feeding, bottle may only contain formula or human milk, and may not be combined with cereal, fruit juice, or other foods without a medical practitioner’s written permission.  
(k)    A provider must not give infants under six months of age water to drink without written approval by a medical professional.  
(l)    A provider must warm bottles only in one of the following ways: under running, warm tap water; using a commercial bottle warmer; stove top warming methods, or slow-cooking device; or by placing them in a container of warm water.  
(A)    Bottles must not be warmed in microwave ovens.  
(B)    Once warmed, a bottle must not be returned to the refrigerator or re-warmed.  
(m)    Solid foods fed to infants must be selected from the Child and Adult Care Food Program Meal Pattern (CACFP):  
(A)    Solid foods must not be fed to infants less than four months of age;  
(B)    Commercially packaged baby food must be served from a dish and not directly from the factory-sealed container;  
(C)    Leftovers in the serving container must be discarded; and  
(D)    Solid foods, with the exception of finger foods, must be fed with a spoon.  
(n)    Honey or food containing honey must not be served to infants.  
(2)    When bottle feeding, a provider must:  
(a)    Hold infants up to 6 months of age and older children who cannot hold their own bottles or sit alone; and 
(b)    Ensure the infant’s head is elevated while being fed. 
(3)    A provider must not lay a child of any age down with a bottle or training cup. 
(4)    A provider must not prop a bottle by any means at any time. 
(5)    When feeding solid foods, a provider must ensure that infants are fed in an upright position. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.330 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 140-2024, adopt filed 12/11/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
