



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 98 OREGON CONSERVATION AND RECREATION FUND 
 635-098-0100 
 Applications to the Fund 
 
 (1) Applications must be submitted on the most current format prescribed by the Department. 

 (2) A separate application is required for each submitted project. 

 (3) Applications will be considered final as submitted. The Department, Advisory Committee or technical experts may request clarification of information from the applicant during the evaluation process, but additional, new information not requested will not be accepted after the application deadline. 

 (4) Each project application at a minimum must provide: 

 (a) Well-defined and measurable goals; 

 (b) Measures to achieve project goals; 

 (c) The location and duration of the project, including the beginning and the ending date; 

 (d) Estimated project costs that consider cost effectiveness of the project; 

 (e) Consideration of outdoor equity, as it pertains to how well the project engages Oregonians who have not participated in the past because of language barriers, financial barriers, or other access barriers; 

 (f) A monitoring plan to measure performance of the implemented project; and 

 (g) Description of stakeholders and community partnerships involved in the project. 

 (e) The Department may reject incomplete project applications. 

 (6) The Advisory Committee, the Department, and technical experts shall review all submitted projects and the Department shall recommend expenditures to the Commission. 

 (a) The Advisory Committee, the Department, and technical experts will be responsible for determining whether the projects propose activities that serve to protect, maintain, or enhance fish and wildlife resources in Oregon. 

 (b) The Advisory Committee shall make recommendations to the Department and Commission to make diverse expenditures from the Fund. In evaluation of submitted projects the Advisory Committee, the Department, and the technical experts may consider diversity of: 

 (A) Projects geographically; 

 (B) Projects taxonomically; 

 (C) Representation of program priorities as outlined in 635-098-0030; 

 (D) Partners participating in and impacted by projects; and 

 (E) Engagement of Oregonians in recreational opportunities or in the solution to a key conservation issue as identified in the Oregon Conservation Strategy. 

 (7) All proposed funding projects that are or are not recommended by the Advisory Committee shall be presented in summary to the Commission. The Advisory Committee shall not recommend a project for funding if it determines the project: 

 (a) Is inconsistent with the intent of ORS 496.252; 

 (b) Is contrary to sound biological principles; 

 (c) Proposes inappropriate measures or methods to accomplish the project goals and objectives; or 

 (d) Violates Department goals, policies, administrative rules, or species or other management plans approved or adopted by the Commission. 

 (8) The applicant of a project not recommended for funding by the Advisory Committee may resubmit at a subsequent Regular Grant solicitation and be reconsidered by the committee. 

 (9) The Department shall fund projects approved by the Commission with funds from the Conservation and Recreation Fund. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.012, 496.138, 496.146, 496.252 & 496.254 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496.012 & 496.146 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 122-2023, adopt filed 12/28/2023, effective 12/28/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
