



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-1330 
 Campfire Activity Supervision and Safety 
 
 (1) To engage in a campfire activity, certified ONB programs must comply with this section and have permission from the landowner or park personnel to engage in campfire activities. 
(2) A certified ONB program must have signed written permission for campfire activities from each child's parent or guardian prior to children participating in campfire activities.  Parents must be provided a copy of the ONB program's campfire activity policies and procedures. 
(3) Certified ONB program staff must receive training on ONB program campfire policies and procedures before the staff may lead any campfire activity. To ensure the staff are able to properly build and extinguish a fire as described in this section, the ONB program director must observe staff members' ability to properly build and extinguish a fire before the staff member may lead any campfire activities.  Documentation of staff members’ training and ability to properly build and extinguish a campfire must be documented per OAR 414-320-0240, Staff Records. 
(4) For each campfire activity, a certified ONB program staff member must prepare and retain a record that the safe campfire practices required under this section were followed. Compliance with this subsection may include the creation of a checklist by the certified ONB program that describes the safe campfire practices that were followed before and after each campfire activity. 
(5) A certified ONB program must have and properly maintain a fire safety kit near the campfire that contains first-aid supplies made specifically to treat fire related injuries including, but not limited to, a fire blanket and sterile, non-adhesive bandages. ONB program staff must be prepared to smother a fire on a child's clothing or hair using equipment including, but not limited to, water, a fire suppression blanket, or 2A:10 BC fire extinguisher. 
(6) A certified ONB program must create a clearly visible boundary at least three feet away from the outer edge of the structure containing the fire. A certified ONB program must ensure that: 
(a) The area within the three-foot boundary is clear of tripping hazards such as bags or other materials; and 
(b) Seating is outside of the three-foot boundary and arranged so that children and adults may easily move into and out of the seating area. 
(7) Prior to any campfire activity, a certified ONB program must use developmentally appropriate teaching practices to ensure children understand safe behavior around a campfire. 
(8) Campfires must be built and extinguished according to safe fire practices provided by the U.S. Forest Service. Campfires: 
(a) Must not be built during periods of high, very high, or extreme fire danger in the area, or when local authorities have fire restrictions in place; 
(b) Must not be more than two feet in diameter; 
(c) Must be in a fire pit or structure that is designed for the express purpose of safely containing a campfire including, when applicable, the fire pit or structure must contain an approved bottom; and 
(d) Must not burn materials that release toxic substances, such as chemically treated wood, rubber, or plastics. 
(9) Campfires must not be left unattended for any length of time. 
(10) Each ONB program group may only have one campfire activity at any time. 
(11) Before starting a campfire activity, a certified ONB program must have the necessary equipment and supplies to safely extinguish a campfire. For purposes of this subsection, equipment and supplies include, but are not limited to, sufficient water and a shovel. Fire extinguishers must be kept on-site and comply with the requirements described in OAR 414-320-320-0860, Fire Protection. 
(12) While campfires are burning, ONB program staff must remain within the three-foot boundary around the fire to respond to any fire-tending needs and to prevent children from coming into close contact with the fire. 
(13) There must be a one-to-one (1:1) staff-to-child ratio for any child within the three-foot boundary around the fire. A staff member must remain within arms' reach of that child and the child may only assist in setting up or tending to the fire in a developmentally appropriate way, such as by placing kindling or small sticks before the fire is started. 
(14) Adults and children who tend to the fire must tie back long hair and secure loose clothing to reduce the risk of catching fire. 
(15) A certified ONB program must prevent children from: 
(a) Entering the three-foot boundary around the campfire without one-to-one supervision; and 
(b) Running or pushing within six feet of the edge of the fire-pit. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
