



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 16 OREGON PROJECT INDEPENDENCE - MEDICAID (OPI-M) 
 411-016-0130 
 Unpaid Caregiver Education and Training and Provider Qualifications 
 
 (1) For the purposes of this rule, an unpaid caregiver means a person providing assistance that meets the following conditions: 

 (a) Longevity/Acuity: 

 (A) The caregiver has been providing unpaid caregiving for 3 months or longer; and 

 (B) Expects to continue providing caregiving for 3 months or longer; or 

 (C) The individual is receiving hospice services; or 

 (D) There is a new diagnosis of an acute or traumatic event causing an increase in the need for activities of daily living care and the increase in additional care is expected to last 3 months or longer; or 

 (E) There is a significant deterioration of functional ability causing the need for an immediate increase in assistance with activities of daily living which is expected to last 3 months or longer. 

 (b) The eligible individual, or their representative, attests that the unpaid caregiver meets the longevity and other criteria of this rule. 

 (c) The unpaid caregiver provides in person care in the individual’s home or community at least 10 hours per week. 

 (d) The unpaid caregiver is providing Activities of Daily Living or Instrumental Activities of Daily Living care or assistance with treatments related to the individual’s needs that are identified in the CA/PS assessment or Department approved forms. 

 (e) The unpaid caregiver has the skills, knowledge and ability to adequately or safely perform or learn to perform the required work. This means the unpaid caregiver possesses and demonstrates the physical, mental, organizational, and emotional skills or abilities necessary to perform or learn to perform services which safely and adequately meet the needs of the individual. 

 (2) Caregiver Education and Training may be authorized to improve an unpaid caregiver’s skills, knowledge, ability to perform caregiving tasks that support health and safety of eligible individuals or to help the unpaid caregiver manage the stress of caregiving. 

 (3) Caregiver Education and Training may be authorized for, but is not limited to, the following topics: 

 (a) Chronic disease self-management; 

 (b) Dementia; 

 (c) Fall prevention; 

 (d) Depression; 

 (e) Self-care; 

 (f) Stress Reduction; 

 (g) Suicide prevention; 

 (h) Addressing complex behaviors; 

 (i) Loneliness and isolation; 

 (j) Hoarding; and 

 (k) Culturally specific caregiving. 

 (4) Through a person-centered planning process with the individual, the SCM must assess and document the request for caregiver education on the service plan form using the Unpaid Caregiver Assessment tool. 

 (5) The eligible individual or the representative may request topic specific caregiver education and training and the request shall be documented in the service plan. If the unpaid caregiver requests education and training, the SCM will work with the individual to determine if the service will be included in the service plan. 

 (6) Unpaid caregivers are not paid for their time attending caregiver education and training or for their transportation to and from training. Unpaid caregivers will not be charged training tuition or registration fees. 

 (7) Caregiver Education and Training providers are contracted entities that provide one to one training or those that are contracted to provide classroom type trainings or online if the content does not require hands-on learning. Providers may be reimbursed for reasonable costs for transportation for participants attending training. 

 (8) Caregiver Education and Training does not count in the hourly maximum hours. 

 (9) Caregiver Education and Training providers must at a minimum meet the following requirements: 

 (a) Be over the age 18; 

 (b) Have a high school diploma or GED; 

 (c) Pass a department approved background check as described in OAR chapter 407, division 7; 

 (d) Have demonstrated experience in assisting caregivers of older adults and people with disabilities; 

 (e) Are subject matter experts with demonstrated experience in their field; 

 (f) Meet the training, licensing or credential requirements for the education and training they are providing; and 

 (g) Meet the qualifications to be a Medicaid enrolled provider and be enrolled as a Medicaid provider. 

 (10) Caregiver Education and Training may not be authorized for education and training available through Long Term Care Community Nursing. 

 (11) Caregiver Education and Training may not be authorized for In-Home Care Agency providers. 

 (12) Caregiver Education and Training may not be authorized in place of readily available free training accessible to unpaid caregivers unless the quality of the education and training is more substantive or relevant than the free training. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.060, 410.070 & 414.065 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 64-2024, adopt filed 11/20/2024, effective 11/22/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 22-2024, temporary adopt filed 05/20/2024, effective 05/31/2024 through 11/26/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
