



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Chapter 731 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 145 JURISDICTIONAL TRANSFERS 
 731-145-0030 
 Application Review Process 
 
 (1) The Jurisdictional Transfer Advisory Committee Chairperson, or their designee, shall receive submitted pre-applications. The Chairperson may schedule a meeting of the Committee to review each pre-application or may hold applications until such time the Committee is able to meet to discuss multiple pre-applications. 

 (2) Upon review of the pre-application(s), the Committee, by a majority vote, will: 

 (a) Invite a city or county to submit an application if the Committee accepts the pre-application; 

 (b) Return the pre-application to the city or county because the pre-application requires additional clarification or further work; or 

 (c) Reject the pre-application and not consider further information related to the application. 

 (3) The Committee will notify a pre-applicant city or county of the Committee’s decision regarding the pre-application. 

 (4) At the close of the application period, the Committee Chairperson, or their designee, shall schedule a meeting for review of applications by the Committee. 

 (5) At the scheduled meeting for review of applications, the Committee shall: 

 (a) Review the applications. 

 (b) If needed, request: 

 (A) Missing or additional information from the applicant in writing, to which the city or county must respond before the Committee may consider the application to be complete; or 

 (B) A presentation by the city or county to the Committee. 

 (c) Develop a list of jurisdictional transfers to present to the Oregon Transportation Commission for review and comment. 

 (6) After soliciting review and comment from the Oregon Transportation Commission, the Committee will develop a list of three jurisdictional transfers to recommend for funding; 

 (7) If fewer than 3 applications are received by the Committee during the application period, the Committee will review the applications and will bring forward its recommendations to the OTC for review and comment before submission to the Joint Committee on Transportation. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS184.619 & Ch 323 OL 2023 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Ch 323 OL 2023 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 4-2024, adopt filed 08/06/2024, effective 08/06/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
