



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 270 COMMUNITY HEAT PUMP DEPLOYMENT PROGRAM 
 330-270-0060 
 Record keeping, reporting, and compliance monitoring 
 
 (1) Grantees and their partners must maintain accurate financial records satisfactory to the Department, which document the receipt and disbursement of all Community Heat Pump Deployment Program funds. Grantees must have an accounting system in place satisfactory to the Department. 

 (2) Grantees and their partners must maintain other Community Heat Pump Deployment Program records satisfactory to the Department. 

 (3) To ensure proper compliance and monitoring of the Community Heat Pump Deployment Program, grantees and their partners must: 

 (a) Provide the Department access to and permit copying of all electronic and hardcopy accounts, documents, audits, and records. 

 (b) Cooperate fully in any inspections or other monitoring actions taken by the Department. 

 (c) Retain and keep accessible all Community Heat Pump Deployment Program records and data as requested by the Department. 

 (d) Conduct and keep records of their own inspection of heat pump installations as specified in the performance agreement. 

 (4) The Department may conduct reviews, audits, inspections, and other compliance monitoring as it deems appropriate with respect to each grantee and its partners to verify compliance with the program requirements. Grantees and their partners must cooperate fully with the Department in its compliance monitoring activities. 

 (5) Grantees must require by contract and monitor their partners’ compliance with all program requirements including, but not limited to, recordkeeping and retention of records. 

 (6) Grantees and their partners shall notify the electric utility serving the home that a heat pump is being installed and state whether grant funds may be used for necessary electric distribution system upgrades associated with the installation of the heat pump.   

 (7) Each grantee must provide a report to the Department for the period July 1 to June 30 for each year by a date specified in the performance agreement. The report shall not include the personal information of the recipients of financial assistance, but must include: 

 (a) A detailed description of the grantee’s, and their partner’s, use of grant funds; 

 (b) A list of each funding payment the grantee, and their partner(s), has provided, and in the case of loans, a full accounting of the repayment status; 

 (c) The nature and amounts of the administrative expenses and marketing costs the grantee has incurred in providing payments under the program; 

 (d) Any other information required by the Department. 

 (8) In addition to the reporting requirements in (7), each grantee must provide reports during the year at a frequency determined by the Department and specified in the performance agreement. The required information may be different from those outlined in (7). 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Oregon Laws 2022, Chapter 86 (Senate Bill 1536) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Oregon Laws 2022, Chapter 86 (Senate Bill 1536) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 4-2024, amend filed 08/05/2024, effective 08/06/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 1-2023, adopt filed 02/13/2023, effective 02/13/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
