



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 14 STUDENT INVESTMENT ACCOUNT 
 581-014-0013 
 Performance Review Standards 
 
 (1) Grantees will be required to have a performance review conducted at least once every four years. 

 (2) If the department requires a specific financial audit as part of the performance review, the audit must meet the current Generally Accepted Governmental Accounting Standards issued by the US Government Accountability Office also known as GAGAS or Yellow Book Standards for program effectiveness audits as well as the International Professional Practices Framework issues by the Institute of Internal Auditors. 

 (3) Performance audits, as part of performance reviews, will be inclusive of the following content areas in determining effectiveness of the grantees SIA plan: 

 (a) Ongoing community engagement: Evidence that the grantee has established meaningful, ongoing and authentic opportunities for focal group students, families, and school employees to engage in the SIA planning, implementation and evaluation processes informed by prevailing ODE Guidance. 

 (b) Education equity in practice: 

 (A) Evidence that the grantee has prioritized resources to improve mental or behavioral health needs for all focal group students the recipient serves. 

 (B) Evidence that the grantee has developed and implemented policies, where applicable, to remove barriers that prevent focal group students from accessing mental or behavioral health services. 

 (C) Evidence that the grantee has prioritized resources to improve academic outcomes for all focal group students the recipient serves. 

 (D) Evidence that the grantee has developed and implemented policies, where applicable, to remove barriers that prevent focal group students from accessing advanced courses and opportunities for well-rounded educational experiences. 

 (c) Processes for data review and adjustment: 

 (A) Evidence that the grantee has established processes to review. 

 (i) Longitudinal Performance Growth Targets; 

 (ii) Progress Markers; 

 (iii) Local Optional Metrics; 

 (iv) Other local measures of student behavior and academic performance. 

 (B) Evidence that the grantee has established processes to make necessary adjustments to strategies, resource allocation and policies to continue to meet the aims of the SIA. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 327.201 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 327.201 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 23-2021, adopt filed 06/22/2021, effective 06/22/2021 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
