



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 82 LAND USE ORDINANCE 
 350-082-0610 
 Special Management Area Scenic Resources Review Criteria 
 
 (1) SMA Design Guidelines Based on Landscape Settings  
(a) The following guidelines apply to all lands within SMA landscape settings regardless of visibility from KVAs (includes areas visible from KVAs as well as areas not visible from KVAs): 
(A) Pastoral: Pastoral areas shall retain the overall appearance of an agricultural landscape. The use of plant species native to the landscape setting shall be encouraged. Examples of native species are identified in the Scenic Implementation Handbook as appropriate to the area. The use of agricultural plant species in rows, as commonly found in the landscape setting is also encouraged. 
(B) Coniferous Woodland and Oak-Pine Woodland: Woodland areas shall retain the overall appearance of a woodland landscape. New development and land uses shall retain the overall visual character of the natural appearance of the Coniferous Woodland and Oak-Pine Woodland landscape. 
(i) Buildings designed to have a vertical overall appearance in the Coniferous Woodland landscape setting and a horizontal overall appearance in the Oak-Pine Woodland landscape setting shall be encouraged. 
(ii) Use of plant species native to the landscape setting shall be encouraged. Examples of native species are identified in the Scenic Implementation Handbook as appropriate to the area. Where non-native plants are used, they shall have native-appearing characteristics. 
(C) Residential: The Residential setting is characterized by concentrations of dwellings. 
(i) At Rowena Dell, new buildings shall have a rustic appearance using natural materials. At Latourell Falls, new buildings shall have an appearance consistent with the predominant historical architectural style. 
(ii) Use of plant species native to the landscape setting shall be encouraged. Examples of native species are identified in the Scenic Implementation Handbook as appropriate to the area. Where non-native plants are used, they shall have native-appearing characteristics. 
(D) River Bottomlands: River Bottomlands shall retain the overall visual character of a floodplain and associated islands. 
(i) Buildings shall have an overall horizontal appearance in areas with little tree cover. 
(ii) Use of plant species native to the landscape setting shall be encouraged. Examples of native species are identified in the Scenic Implementation Handbook as appropriate to the area. Where non-native plants are used, they shall have native-appearing characteristics. 
(E) Gorge Walls, Canyons, and Wildlands: New development and land uses shall retain the overall visual character of the natural-appearing landscape. 
(i) Structures, including signs, shall have a rustic appearance, use non-reflective materials, have low contrast with the surrounding landscape, and be of a Cascadian architectural style. 
(ii) Temporary roads shall be promptly closed and revegetated. 
(iii) New utilities shall be below ground surface, where feasible. 
(iv) Use of plant species non-native to the Columbia River Gorge shall not be allowed. 
(2) SMA Guidelines for Development and Uses Visible from KVAs 
(a) The guidelines in this section shall apply to proposed development on sites topographically visible from key viewing areas. 
(b) New development and land uses shall be evaluated to ensure that the required scenic standard is met and that scenic resources are not adversely affected, including cumulative effects, based on the degree of visibility from key viewing areas. 
(c) The required SMA scenic standards for all development and uses are summarized in 350-082-0610 Table 1 - Required SMA Scenic Standards. 
(d) In all landscape settings, scenic standards shall be met by blending new development with the adjacent natural landscape elements rather than with existing development. 
(e) Proposed development or land uses shall be sited to achieve the required scenic standard. Development shall be designed to fit the natural topography, to take advantage of landform and vegetation screening, and to minimize visible grading or other modifications of landforms, vegetation cover, and natural characteristics. When screening of development is needed to meet the scenic standard from key viewing areas, use of existing topography and vegetation shall be given priority over other means of achieving the scenic standard such as planting new vegetation or using artificial berms. 
(f) The extent and type of conditions applied to a proposed development or use to achieve the scenic standard shall be proportionate to its degree of visibility from key viewing areas.  
(A) Decisions shall include written findings addressing the factors influencing the degree of visibility, including but not limited to:  
(i) The amount of area of the building site exposed to key viewing areas, 
(ii) The degree of existing vegetation providing screening, 
(iii) The distance from the building site to the key viewing areas from which it is visible, 
(iv) The number of key viewing areas from which it is visible, and 
(v) The linear distance along the key viewing areas from which the building site is visible (for linear key viewing areas, such as roads). 
(B) Conditions may be applied to various elements of proposed developments to ensure they meet the scenic standard, including but not limited to: 
(i) Siting (location of development on the subject property, building orientation, and other elements), 
(ii) Retention of existing vegetation, 
(iii) Design (form, line, color, texture, reflectivity, size, shape, height, architectural and design details and other elements), and 
(iv) New landscaping. 
(g) Sites approved for new development to achieve scenic standards shall be consistent with guidelines to protect wetlands, riparian corridors, rare plant or sensitive wildlife sites and the buffer zones of each of these natural resources, and guidelines to protect cultural resources. 
(h) Proposed development shall not protrude above the line of a bluff, cliff, or skyline as visible from key viewing areas. 
(i) Structure height shall remain below the average tree canopy height of the natural vegetation adjacent to the structure, except if it has been demonstrated that meeting this guideline is not feasible considering the function of the structure. 
(j) The following guidelines shall apply to new landscaping used to screen development from key viewing areas: 
(A) New landscaping (including new earth berms) to achieve the scenic standard from key viewing areas shall be required only when application of all other available guidelines in 350-082-0610 is not sufficient to make the development meet the scenic standard from key viewing areas. Development shall be sited to avoid the need for new landscaping wherever possible. 
(B) If new landscaping is necessary to meet the scenic standard, existing on-site vegetative screening and other visibility factors shall be analyzed to determine the extent of new landscaping, and the size of new trees needed to achieve the standard. Any vegetation planted pursuant to this guideline shall be sized to provide sufficient screening to meet the scenic standard within five years or less from the commencement of construction. 
(C) Landscaping shall be installed as soon as practicable, and prior to project completion. Applicants and successors in interest for the subject parcel are responsible for the proper maintenance and survival of planted vegetation, and replacement of such vegetation that does not survive. 
(D) The Scenic Resources Implementation Handbook includes recommended species for each landscape setting consistent with the Landscape Settings Design Guidelines in 350-082-0610 and minimum recommended sizes of new trees planted (based on average growth rates expected for recommended species).  
(k) Unless expressly exempted by other provisions in 350-082-0610, colors of structures on sites visible from key viewing areas shall be dark earth-tones found at the specific site or the surrounding landscape. The specific colors or list of acceptable colors shall be included as a condition of approval. The Scenic Resources Implementation Handbook shall include a recommended palette of colors as dark, or darker than the colors in the shadows of the natural features surrounding each landscape setting. 
(l) The exterior of structures on lands seen from key viewing areas shall be composed of non-reflective materials or materials with low reflectivity. Continuous surfaces of glass shall be limited to ensure meeting the scenic standard. The Scenic Resources Implementation Handbook includes a list of recommended exterior materials and screening methods. 
(m) Any exterior lighting shall be sited, limited in intensity, and shielded or hooded in a manner that prevents lights from being highly visible from key viewing areas and from noticeably contrasting with the surrounding landscape setting, except for road lighting necessary for safety purposes. 
(n) Seasonal lighting displays may be permitted on a temporary basis, not to exceed three months. 
(o) New buildings shall be compatible with the general scale of existing nearby development. Expansion of existing development shall comply with this guideline to the maximum extent practicable. New buildings that are 1,500 square feet or less are exempt from this guideline. Findings addressing this guideline shall include, but are not limited to: 
(A) Application of the landscape setting design guidelines, if applicable; 
(B) A defined study area surrounding the development that includes at least ten existing buildings, not including existing buildings within urban areas or outside the National Scenic Area; 
(C) Individual evaluations of scale for each separate proposed building in the application and each separate building in the study area, including: 
(i) All finished above ground square footage; 
(ii) Total area of covered decks and porches; 
(iii) Attached garages; 
(iv) Daylight basements; 
(v) Breezeways, if the breezeway shares a wall with an adjacent building; and  
(vi) Dimensions, based on information from the application or in Assessor’s records; 
(D) An overall evaluation demonstrating the compatibility of proposed development’ with surrounding existing development and development approved but not yet constructed. Buildings in the vicinity of the proposed development that are significantly larger in size than the rest of the buildings in the study area should be removed from this evaluation. 
(3) SMA Guidelines for KVA Foregrounds and Scenic Routes 
(a) All new development and land uses immediately adjacent to scenic routes shall be in conformance with state or county scenic route guidelines. 
(b) Scenic highway corridor strategies shall be implemented for Interstate 84 (I-84), Washington State Route 14 (SR 14) and the Historic Columbia River Highway (HCRH). For I-84, SR 14 and the HCRH, this involves ongoing implementation (and possible updating) of the associated existing documents.  
(c) The following guidelines shall apply only to development within the immediate foregrounds of key viewing areas. Immediate foregrounds are defined as within the developed prism of a road or trail KVA or within the boundary of the developed area of KVAs such as Crown Point and Multnomah Falls. They shall apply in addition to 350-082-0610(2). 
(A) The proposed development shall be designed and sited to meet the applicable scenic standard from the foreground of the subject KVA. If the development cannot meet the standard, findings must be made documenting why the project cannot meet the requirements in 350-082-0610(2) and why it cannot be redesigned or wholly or partly relocated to meet the scenic standard. 
(B) Findings must evaluate the following: 
(i) The limiting factors to meeting the required scenic standard and applicable guidelines from 350-082-0610(2); 
(ii) Reduction in project size; 
(iii) Options for alternative sites for all or part of the project, considering parcel configuration and on-site topographic or vegetative screening; and 
(iv) Options for design changes including changing the design shape, configuration, color, height, or texture in order to meet the scenic standard. 
(C) Form, line, color, texture, and design of a proposed development shall be evaluated to ensure that the development blends with its setting as visible from the foreground of key viewing areas: 
(i) Form and Line-Design of the development shall minimize changes to the form of the natural landscape. Development shall borrow form and line from the landscape setting and blend with the form and line of the landscape setting. Design of the development shall avoid contrasting form and line that unnecessarily call attention to the development. 
(ii) Color-Color shall be found in the project’s surrounding landscape setting. Colors shall be chosen and repeated as needed to provide unity to the whole design. 
(iii) Texture-Textures borrowed from the landscape setting shall be emphasized in the design of structures. Landscape textures are generally rough, irregular, and complex rather than smooth, regular, and uniform. 
(iv) Design-Design solutions shall be compatible with the natural scenic quality of the Gorge. Building materials shall be natural or natural appearing. Building materials such as concrete, steel, aluminum, or plastic shall use form, line color and texture to harmonize with the natural environment. Design shall balance all design elements into a harmonious whole, using repetition of elements and blending of elements as necessary. 
(d) Right-of-way vegetation shall be managed to minimize visual impacts of clearing and other vegetation removal as visible from key viewing areas. Roadside vegetation management (vista clearing, planting, etc.) should enhance views from the highway. 
(e) Screening from key viewing areas shall be encouraged for existing and required for new road maintenance, warehouse, and stockpile areas.  
(4) SMA Guidelines for Areas Not Seen from KVAs  
(a) Unless expressly exempted by other provisions in 350-082-0610, colors of structures on sites not visible from key viewing areas shall be dark earth-tones found at the specific site. The specific colors or list of acceptable colors shall be approved as a condition of approval, (see palette of colors in the Scenic Resources Implementation Handbook for guidance). 
(b) New buildings shall be compatible with the general scale of existing nearby development. Expansion of existing development shall comply with this guideline to the maximum extent practicable. New buildings that are 1,500 square feet or less are exempt from this guideline. Findings addressing this guideline shall include but are not limited to: 
(A) Application of the landscape setting design guidelines, if applicable. 
(B) A defined study area surrounding the development that includes at least ten existing buildings, not including existing buildings within urban areas or outside the National Scenic Area. 
(C) Individual evaluations of scale for each separate proposed building in the application and each separate building in the study area, including: 
(i) All finished above ground square footage; 
(ii) Total area of covered decks and porches; 
(iii) Attached garages; 
(iv) Daylight basements; 
(v) Breezeways, if the breezeway shares a wall with an adjacent building; and 
(vi) Dimensions, based on information from the application or in Assessor’s records. 
(D) An overall evaluation demonstrating compatibility of the proposed development’ with surrounding existing development and development approved but not yet constructed. Buildings in the vicinity of the proposed development that are significantly larger in size than the rest of the buildings in the study area should be removed from this evaluation. 

 
 
 
 
 
 [ED. NOTE: To view attachments referenced in rule text, click here for PDF copy.] 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015 & 16 USC § 544f(l) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015 & 16 USC § 544f(l) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2022, adopt filed 03/02/2022, effective 05/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
