



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Business Development Department 
 Chapter 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 49 SAFE DRINKING WATER REVOLVING LOAN FUND PROGRAM 
 123-049-0026 
 Application Review and Approval 
 
 (1) After Oregon Health Authority eligibility determination and rating and ranking of a preliminary letter of interest form, an eligible water system may submit a funding application upon invitation from the Authority. The water system shall comply with the Authority’s procedures for submitting applications. 

 (2) The application shall be in the form provided by the Authority and shall contain or be accompanied by such information and documentation as the Authority may require. The Authority will process only completed applications. 

 (3) For a project that is part of a water system that is, or will be, functionally connected to another water system, a cooperation agreement that describes the duties and obligation of each entity is required. The fully executed agreement must be provided before funds for construction activities may be disbursed.    

 (4) In order to approve a funding application, the Authority must make the following determinations: 

 (a) Project feasibility as demonstrated by certification from a professional engineer registered in the State of Oregon in an engineering report, such as a Master Plan, that the proposed project is feasible or other feasibility documentation approved by the Authority. 

 (b) The loan is secured by the pledge of utility revenues or other revenues or payments from owners of specially benefitted properties, and these revenues or payments are sufficient, when considered with other security, to assure repayment of the loan and the Applicant has certified to the Authority that there will be adequate funds available to repay the loans made to the Applicant from the Fund. 

 (c) Moneys in the appropriate accounts of the Fund are or will be available for the project. 

 (d) The Applicant is willing and able to enter into a contract with the Authority. 

 (e) The project is consistent with the requirements governing assistance from the Fund. If the Authority determines that the water system or the proposed project does not meet the requirements of OAR 123-049-0026, the Authority may reject an application or require further documentation from the Applicant. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 285A.075 & ORS 285.213(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 285.213 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 8-2023, adopt filed 06/05/2023, effective 06/05/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
