



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 39 AGENCY WITH CHOICE 
 411-039-0050 
 Services Provided 
 
 (1) The Agency with Choice must ensure that the Individual is supported in ensuring their services are adequate and responsive to their needs with a focus on self-direction. 

 (2) The services provided by an Agency with Choice must include the provision of or assistance with ADL, IADL and health-related tasks as directed by the Individual or the Authorized Representative and approved in the Individual’s Department approved Service Plan. The Agency with Choice is not responsible for Long Term Care Community Nursing Services. 

 (3) An Agency with Choice must agree in writing to deliver the supports identified in an Individual's Department approved Service Plan which includes the limits and scope of the services to be provided. Agreement may be shown by the Agency with Choice signature on the Service Plan. 

 (4) The Agency with Choice must assist the Individual with the following responsibilities: 

 (a) Recruiting, selecting, and retaining Direct Support Workers to assist Individuals with activities of daily living (ADL), Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL) and health related tasks, and changing Direct Support Workers from an Individual’s service team when necessary; 

 (b) Coordinating the schedules of Direct Support Workers prioritizing the Individual’s choices, needs, and preferences, ensuring that support is person-centered and self-directed; 

 (c) Proactively work with the Individual or their Authorized Representative to develop a Back Up Plan to ensure continuity of services, when the regularly scheduled Direct Support Worker is unavailable due to absence or emergent circumstances and ensure that the Individual’s service needs are met during these planned and unplanned absences; 

 (d) Establishing the responsibilities of Direct Support Workers and ensuring Direct Support Workers do not work more than the hours authorized by the Department; 

 (e) Training Direct Support Workers on best practices and basic requirements and at the request of the Individual, the Individual’s specific needs and preferences to ensure Services and Supports are delivered appropriately; 

 (f) Ensuring a safe and healthy workplace environment as defined in OAR chapter 411, division 030, and in the roles and responsibilities of co-employer; and 

 (g) Ensuring Direct Support Workers are compliant with Electronic Visit Verification (EVV). 

 (5) If the Agency with Choice is concerned that the Individual can no longer self-direct or if there is a Change of Condition, the Agency with Choice must contact the Individual’s Case Manager within five business days. 

 (6) All documentation required in sections (2) and (4) of this rule must be kept in the Individual’s record. 

 (7) The Licensee is responsible for the supervision, training, and overall conduct of all Agency with Choice staff when acting within the scope of their employment or duties. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Or Laws 2024, ch. 37 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 124.050 & Or Laws 2024, ch. 37 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 17-2025, adopt filed 12/10/2025, effective 12/15/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
