



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 210 REGISTERED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-210-0370 
 Orientation and Initial Training 
 
 (1)    When a person submits a new application for registration as a registered family child care, CCLD shall, prior to approving the registration, receive evidence from the applicant that the person has completed: 
(a)    Introduction to Registered Family Child Care Part I and Part II; 
(b)    Introduction to Child Care Health & Safety Training; 
(c)    A minimum of two hours of training on child abuse and neglect that is specific to Oregon law; 
(d)    Safe Sleep for Oregon’s Infants; 
(e)     Current certification in pediatric  CPR and  first aid. CPR training must have practical hands-on instruction. CPR courses that involve an on-line component with hands-on instruction may be accepted. Strictly on-line CPR training is not acceptable; 
(f)    Foundations for Learning child development training; and 
(g)    Current Oregon’s food handler’s certification. 
(2)     The provider’s Oregon food handler’s certification and pediatric CPR and first aid certification must remain current while the registration is active .  
(3)     A provider must ensure that prior to having unsupervised access to children, substitute providers: 
(a)     Receive an orientation. An orientation must include, but is not limited to: 
(A)    A review of the rules for registered family child care homes; 
(B)    The written plan for emergency preparedness that addresses evacuation, relocation, shelter-in-place and lockdown procedures and responding to medical emergencies, illness and injuries, allergic reactions, and other incidents; 
(C)    The prevention and control of infectious diseases; 
(D)    Building and premises safety including identification and protection from hazards such as electrical hazards, bodies of water, and vehicular traffic; 
(E)     The handling and storage of hazardous materials and the appropriate disposal of bodily fluids; 
(F)     Safe sleep practices, prevention of shaken baby syndrome,  abusive head trauma, and child maltreatment; 
(G)    The provider’s policies, as required under OAR 414-210-0200, Policies; and 
(H)    Procedures for reporting suspected child abuse or neglect. 
(b)   Complete the following: 
(A)    Introduction to Child Care Health and Safety; 
(B)    A minimum of 2 hours of CCLD approved training on recognizing and reporting child abuse and neglect that is specific to Oregon law;  
(C)    Safe Sleep for Oregon's infants; 
(D)    Current certification in pediatric CPR and first aid within the first 90 days of hire. On-line CPR training is only acceptable if it includes hands-on instruction. Pediatric CPR and first aid certification must be kept current while working in the registered family child care home; 
(E)    Foundations for Learning child development training; and 
(F)    Obtain an Oregon food handler’s certification prior to preparing and serving food and/or bottles. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.330 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 140-2024, adopt filed 12/11/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
