



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-1130 
 Food Storage and Preparation 
 
 (1) A certified ONB program must store, prepare, and serve all food and drink provided by the program in a sanitary manner and protected from contamination. 
(2) Water for preparing food, drinking, or cooking shall be obtained from an approved source and not from handwashing sinks. 
(3) A certified ONB program must ensure that food-contact surfaces and items, such as kitchenware, utensils, tableware, service items, and storage items that come into contact with food, are designed and constructed of safe, non-toxic materials and are smooth, nonabsorbent, easily cleanable, durable, and in good repair. 
(4) A certified ONB program must keep potentially hazardous foods cold and at a safe temperature. This includes all foods requiring refrigeration including food that children bring from home, except during preparation and service.   
(a) Milk and food must not sit out for longer than 15 minutes prior to the beginning of the meal or snack. 
(b) All food stored in the refrigerator or cooler must be tightly covered, wrapped, or otherwise protected from direct contact with other food to prevent cross contamination. 
(c) To keep food below a temperature of 41°F, an ONB program may store food in a cooler using ice from an approved source or icepacks. 
(5) A certified ONB program must thaw frozen food by one of the following methods: 
(a) In a refrigerator; 
(b) Under cool running drinking water inside a pot that extends above the top of the flood rim of the sink.  The drain plug must be removed from the sink;  
(c) In a microwave if the food is to be cooked as part of the continuous cooking process; or 
(d) As part of the cooking process. 
(6) A certified ONB program must serve food promptly after preparation or cooking or maintain it at safe temperatures of 41°F or below for cold foods or 135°F or above for hot foods.  
(a) A small diameter probe thermometer must be used to measure the temperature of food. 
(b) Foods that have been cooked, and then refrigerated, must be reheated rapidly to at least 165°F before being served or placed in a hot food storage unit. 
(7) A certified ONB program must ensure that foods heated in a microwave are not too hot before it is served to children. 
(8) A certified ONB program must prepare food according to the minimum standards identified in food handler certification including: 
(a) Using gloves, utensils, or tongs to serve food; 
(b) Washing raw fruits and vegetables in water to remove soil and other contaminants before being cut, combined with other ingredients, cooked, served, or offered for human consumption in ready-to-eat form; and   
(c) Preparing food on food-contact surfaces and with utensils that are cleaned and sanitized after each use and whenever there is a change in processing from raw to ready-to-eat foods. 
(9) A certified ONB program must protect food from contamination by: 
(a) Transferring prepared food to each child’s plate or bowl using a suitable dispensing utensil that is not used for eating or any other purpose.  
(b) Washing and sanitizing bowls, platters, pitchers, and utensils used for serving food or drink before reusing. 
(c) Dispensing milk from commercial one-gallon or smaller plastic containers, individual half-pint containers, or from a refrigerated bulk container equipped with an approved dispensing device, and: 
(A) Opening milk containers immediately before pouring; 
(B) Returning any unused portions left in the original container to refrigeration; and 
(C) Discarding any unused portions of milk left in a serving pitcher or open individual serving containers. 
(d) Discarding all food removed from the kitchen after meal service. 
(e) Labeling, dating, and refrigerating any prepared food which has not been removed from the kitchen and used within 48 hours or immediately freeze for later use.  
(f) Washing, rinsing, and sanitizing multi-use dishes, cups, serving and eating utensils, and tables after each use according to the Oregon Health Authority’s Chapter 333, Division 150 Food Sanitation administrative rules. 
(g) Air drying all tableware, equipment, and utensils after being sanitized. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
