



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 245 PERSONNEL SERVICE LICENSES 
 584-245-0200 
 Scope of School Psychologist 
 
 (1) Scope: An Oregon School Psychologist or Professional School Psychologist License or registration is required to perform any one of the following duties in public schools, school districts, or education service districts: 

 (a) Provide psychological services that enhance academic performance; 

 (b) Design strategies and programs to address problems of adjustment; 

 (c) Consult with other educators and parents on issues of social development and behavioral and academic difficulties; 

 (d) Conduct psycho-educational assessment for purposes of identifying special needs; 

 (e) Provide psychological counseling for individuals, groups and families; and 

 (f) Coordinate intervention strategies for management of individuals and school-wide crises. 

 (2) Responsibilities: The School Psychologist and Professional School Psychologist License authorizes the holder to perform the following duties: 

 (a) Use data-based decision making to choose assessment methods for identifying strengths and needs; for developing effective interventions, services, and programs; and for measuring progress and outcomes within a multi-tiered system of supports. 

 (b) Consult and collaborate with individuals, families, groups, and systems, to promote effective services in an equitable manner.  Consultation and collaboration include but are not limited to use of the problem-solving process when planning, implementing, and evaluating academic and mental and behavioral health services with diverse audiences, including students, parents, teachers, school personnel, policy makers, community leaders, and other professionals across disciplines . 

 (c) Inform academic intervention and instructional supports with the use of evidence-based curricula and instructional strategies. 

 (A) Promote interventions and accommodations to help students enhance their capacity to be self-regulated learners. 

 (B) Recommend changes to instruction based on student responsiveness to interventions. 

 (C) Use empirically based research on learning and cognition to inform the development of effective instructional strategies to promote student learning at the individual, group, and systems levels. 

 (D) Use culturally responsive and developmentally appropriate assessment techniques to identify and diagnose disabilities that affect development and learning. 

 (E) Promote intervention fidelity during the development, implementation, and evaluation of instructional interventions. 

 (d) Provide mental and behavioral health services and interventions that promote resilience and positive behavior, support socialization and adaptive skills, and enhance mental and behavioral health in the context of a comprehensive framework. 

 (A) Use data to identify students who may require individualized support and provide a continuum of developmentally appropriate and culturally responsive mental and behavioral health services, including individual and group counseling, behavioral coaching, classroom and school-wide social-emotional learning programs, positive behavior supports, and parent education and support. 

 (B) Address issues that include the impact of trauma on social, emotional, and behavioral functioning; and, in collaboration with others, work to implement practices to reduce the effects of trauma on learning and behavior. 

 (C) Use culturally responsive and developmentally appropriate assessment techniques to identify emotional and behavioral disabilities. 

 (D) U se systematic decision making to analyze behavior and consider the antecedents, consequences, functions, and potential causes of behavioral difficulties that may impede learning or socialization. 

 (E) Promote intervention acceptability and fidelity during the development, implementation, and evaluation of mental and behavioral health interventions. 

 (F) Implement positive behavioral supports based upon a functional behavioral assessment as indicated at the individual, group, classroom, school, and district levels that demonstrate the use of appropriate ecological and behavioral approaches to promote effective student discipline practices and classroom management with the use of function-based supports. 

 (G) Use data to evaluate implementation and outcomes of mental and behavioral health interventions for individuals and groups. 

 (H) Promote effective home–school collaboration and, when necessary, collaborate with other community providers to coordinate mental and behavioral health supports and wraparound services. 

 (I) Provide telemental health supports and services for behavioral and mental health, as trained. 

 (e) Implement school-wide practices to promote learning by informing systems development with use of data, general, and special education programming; and use of implementation science to establish and sustain evidence-based school-wide practices that promote learning, positive behavior, and mental health of all children and youth from diverse backgrounds and cultures in the context of a comprehensive framework. 

 (A) Provide professional development, training, and ongoing coaching on a range of topics that promote the use of effective instructional strategies, positive classroom management practices, positive school climate, and the cultivation of supportive working relationships. 

 (B) Design data systems and implement changes, with the use of outcome data from universal screening procedures and progress monitoring to identify the need for additional academic or behavioral support services. 

 (C) Work collaboratively with other school personnel to create and maintain a multi-tiered system of services to support each student’s attainment of academic, social-emotional, and behavioral goals. 

 (f) Use evidence-based strategies to promote safe and supportive schools, including multi- tiered prevention and health promotion related to social-emotional well-being, resilience, and risk factors in learning, mental, and behavioral health. 

 (A) Contribute to the implementation and evaluation of prevention programs that promote physically and psychologically safe and nonviolent schools and communities. 

 (B) Participate in school crisis response teams and collaborate with other professionals to conduct assessments of school safety. 

 (g) Facilitate family and school partnerships and interactions with community agencies to enhance academic and social-behavioral outcomes for children. 

 (A) Acknowledge and respect diversity in family systems, and identify varying world views, cultural, and family contexts. 

 (B) Use evidence-based strategies to design, implement, and evaluate effective policies and practices that promote family, school, and community partnerships. 

 (C) Acknowledge barriers to school engagement and take steps to help families overcome them. 

 (h) Advocate for and identify equitable practices for diverse populations, demonstrating knowledge and respect for knowledge of, and inherent respect for, individual differences, abilities, disabilities, and other diverse characteristics, including factors related to child development, religion, culture and cultural identity, race, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, socioeconomic status, and other variables. 

 (A) Consider the influence of culture, background, and individual learner characteristics when designing and implementing interventions to achieve optimal learning and behavioral outcomes. 

 (B) Use inclusive language and provide culturally responsive and equitable practices. 

 (C) Convey advanced knowledge about special education and related services, and actively promote specialized instructional and support practices within special education that meet the diverse needs of children with disabilities. 

 (D) Employ a strengths-based approach to address the diverse learning needs of all students, including Emerging Multilingual students. 

 (i) Evaluate, interpret, and synthesize a cumulative body of research findings and apply these as a foundation for evidence-based practice and effective service delivery. 

 (A) Reference evidence-based practices across tiers of support for social-emotional well-being, positive behavior supports, and use of effective instructional strategies for academic engagement and achievement. 

 (B) Apply knowledge of evidence-based interventions and programs in the design, implementation, and evaluation of the fidelity and effectiveness of school-based intervention plans. 

 (C) Understand principles of implementation science and program evaluation and apply these in a variety of settings. 

 (j) School psychologists have knowledge of and provide services consistent with ethical, legal, and professional standards as aligned with the National Association of School Psychologists (NASP) and the educator standards found in OAR Division 584-20, STANDARDS FOR COMPETENT AND ETHICAL PERFORMANCE OF OREGON EDUCATORS. 

 (A) Engage in effective, collaborative, and ethical professional relationships. 

 (B) Access, evaluate, and use information sources and technology in ways that safeguard and enhance the quality of services, security of confidential information, and responsible record keeping. 

 (C) Demonstrate thorough knowledge and application of state and federal educational law, procedures, and regulations . 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342.165 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.125, ORS 342.136, ORS 342.138 & ORS 342.165 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 18-2021, adopt filed 11/15/2021, effective 01/03/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
