



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 State Board of Architect Examiners 
 Chapter 806 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 GENERAL 
 806-010-0014 
 Criminal Conviction Determination Process 
 
 (1) Prior to beginning an education program required for registration as an architect, a person who was convicted of a crime may petition the Board for a determination as to whether the criminal conviction or convictions will prevent the individual from receiving a registration issued by the Board to practice architecture in Oregon. 

 (2) To be complete, a petition must include the following: 

 (a) A complete and signed determination request form; 

 (b) The following records related to the final judgment of each criminal conviction: 

 (A) A certified copy of the judgment of criminal conviction; 

 (B) Any charging document(s); 

 (C) All arrest report(s); 

 (D) All probation and parole records, if they exist; 

 (c) A written statement from the petitioner regarding the facts underlying the criminal conviction, and any intervening circumstances since the conviction; and 

 (d) A written statement or other document listing all criminal convictions, including dates of conviction and a summary of the facts, if the petitioner has more than one criminal conviction. 

 (3) A separate completed petition must be filed for each criminal conviction for which the petitioner is requesting a determination. 

 (4) If any of the records in (2)(b) no longer exist, have been sealed or are otherwise lawfully unavailable to the petitioner, petitioner must provide evidence from the agency, court, or other public body that held the record that the record no longer exists or is lawfully unavailable. 

 (5) If any of the documents required under subsections (2) and (4) are not provided, petitioner will have 60 days to provide the required documents or information. Upon failure to comply, the petition will be deemed incomplete and will be closed without a determination. 

 (6) The petition, the records and information submitted with the petition, and the Board’s determination are subject to Oregon’s Public Records Laws, and unless an exemption applies, the information in the petition and determination are subject to public disclosure. 

 (7) The Board will reconsider a determination that a criminal conviction prevents the person from obtaining a registration when the person submits a completed application for registration. 

 (8) Upon reconsideration, the Board may rescind a previous determination that a criminal conviction does not prevent the person from obtaining a registration if the applicant: 

 (a) Has allegations or charges pending in criminal court; 

 (b) Has failed to disclose a previous criminal conviction; 

 (c) Has been convicted of another crime during the period between the determination and the person’s submission of a completed application for registration; or 

 (d) Has been convicted of a crime that, during the period between the determination and the person’s submission of a completed application for registration, became subject to a change in state or federal law that prohibits registration because of a conviction of that crime. 

 (9) Failure to disclose a previous criminal conviction includes any misrepresentation of a prior criminal conviction, any concealment or failure to disclose a material fact about a prior criminal conviction, and any other misinformation regarding a prior criminal conviction. 

 (10) Nothing in this rule prohibits the Board from denying registration when the person submits a completed application for a reason other than conviction of a crime. 

 (11) A determination under this rule is not a final determination of the Board. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 671.125 & ORS 670.280(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Oregon Laws 2024, chapter 95, section 44 (SB 1552) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BAE 3-2025, adopt filed 10/14/2025, effective 11/24/2025 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
