



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 420 STATE STANDARDS FOR TEACHER PREPARATION PROGRAMS 
 584-420-0710 
 Trauma-Informed Practices Specialization: Program Standards 
 
 (1) Purpose of the Program: Candidates who are prepared for the Trauma-Informed Practices (TIP) Specialization will demonstrate the knowledge, skills, professional dispositions and cultural competencies necessary to promote the academic, career, personal, and social development of students who have been impacted by the experience of trauma and to provide mentoring, resources, professional development, leadership and support to improve teaching and learning in educational environments where individuals and collective communities have been impacted by trauma. 

 (2) The Commission may provide approval to a Trauma-Informed Practices Specialization program only if it includes: 

 (a) Content that will enable candidates to meet the competency standards set forth in this rule and the TSPC Program Review and Standards Handbook; 

 (b) Field experiences that include supervised teaching and leadership practicum in PK-12 educational communities with students who have been impacted by the experience of trauma; and 

 (c) Integration of principles of cultural competency and equitable practice in each competency standard through the entire TIP Specialization program. 

 (3) Standard 1 : Learner Development and Individual Learning Differences. Candidates demonstrate an understanding of the ways in which experiences of trauma can impact development and learning and apply that understanding to foster environments and contexts conducive to growth. 

 (4) Standard 2 : Contributing Factors. Candidates demonstrate awareness of individual, community and systemic factors that impact educational communities, which entails understanding of their own identity, positionality, and experience and how that fits into a larger diverse context. 

 (5) Standard 3 : Sustainability. Candidates demonstrate the ability to recognize and address their own needs as educators, including establishing personal and collective practices that facilitate continued and sustaining work towards the creation of Trauma-Informed Educational Communities. 

 (6) Standard 4: Trauma-Informed Educational Communities. Candidates demonstrate the ability to understand the complex factors and impacts of trauma on educational communities at the school level and the capacity to enact positive change. 

 (7) Standard 5: Learning Environment. Candidates demonstrate the ability to create learning environments that are responsive to the needs of those impacted by trauma. 

 (8) Standard 6:   Trauma-Informed Practices Curriculum. Candidates demonstrate the ability to create asset-based curriculum. 

 (9) Standard 7: Leadership and Advocacy. Candidates demonstrate the ability to analyze strengths and areas for growth in self and others informed by ongoing reflection and evaluation. Candidates facilitate improvement efforts, provide professional development and mentor others in order to advocate for culturally responsive and equitable trauma-informed practices in educational communities. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342, ORS 342.147 & ORS 342.165 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.147 & ORS 342.165 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 20-2021, adopt filed 11/15/2021, effective 01/03/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
