



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Criminal Justice Commission 
 Chapter 213 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 100 Jail-based Medications for Opioid Use Disorder Grant Program 
 213-100-0040 
 Grant Application Requirements 
 
 (1) The grant application period will be determined by the Commission and identified in the grant solicitation. 

 (2) The proportion of grant funds available to an applicant shall be determined as follows and included in the grant solicitation: 

 (a) The Commission shall determine the proportion of grant funds available to tribal correctional facilities. 

 (b) The Commission shall establish a formula that determines the proportion of grant funds available to each local correctional facility based on intake rates and average daily population of a facility, and overdose data and population density for the jurisdiction(s) served. 

 (3) Grant applications must: 

 (a) Demonstrate the applicant operates a local correctional facility or tribal correctional facility in Oregon. 

 (b) Describe the applicant’s existing or planned coordination with a medication for opioid use disorder treatment provider.  

 (c) Describe how the applicant’s program aligns with, or intends to align with, best practices and standards of care related to medications for opioid use disorder treatment. 

 (d) Describe how grant funds will be used for one or more of the following: 

 (A) Provide medication, telemedicine, or any other reasonable treatment to persons in custody with an opioid disorder. 

 (B) Develop or operate mobile or nonmobile opioid treatment units. 

 (C) Administer screenings for opioid use disorder or risk of an acute opioid withdrawal. 

 (D) Facilitate transition planning services for persons in custody who seek or receive opioid use disorder treatment. 

 (E) Undertake any other actions reasonably calculated to mitigate operational or structural barriers to providing opioid use disorder treatment in local correctional facilities or tribal correctional facilities, including but not limited to mitigating any lack of secure storage for medication. 

 (e) Include a statement from the applicant acknowledging that any grant funds received must be expended in accordance with the allowable uses described in OAR 213-100-0040(3)(d). 

 (f) Include a letter of commitment from each administrator of a local correctional facility or tribal correctional facility who is associated with the application, committing to participate in good faith in the grant program. 

 (4) The Commission may, in its sole discretion, waive solicitation requirements or cancel any solicitation in whole or in part if it deems such action to be in the best interests of the Jail-based Medications for Opioid Use Disorder Grant Program. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:   2024 OL Ch.70 §85 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  2024 OL Ch.70 §85 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CJC 5-2024, adopt filed 08/19/2024, effective 08/19/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
