



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-0525 
 Activity Plan for All Children 
 
 (1) A certified ONB program must make the emotional and physical needs of children the first priority of the certified ONB program, ensuring that children get adequate care and prompt attention. 
(2) A certified ONB program must develop, publish, and follow written weekly activity plans for each classroom that: 
(a) Indicate anticipated activities planned for each day; 
(b) Are designed to meet the children's developmental abilities, interests, cultural and individual needs; and 
(c) Are inclusive for all children in the group regardless of disabling or limiting conditions. 
(3) A certified ONB program must ensure the activity plan and available materials allow for a range of learning experiences to support each child’s development of: 
(a) Self-esteem, self-awareness, self-control, cooperation, problem-solving, and decision-making abilities; 
(b) Social, emotional, cognitive, language, literacy, and physical growth; and 
(c) Creativity, experimentation, and exploration. 
(4) A certified ONB program must have a written curriculum philosophy that describes how the program supports child development through nature-based learning. The philosophy must address all age groups being served and must include, but is not limited to:  
(a) How nature is central to their curriculum and how children can develop emotionally, socially, cognitively, and physically in nature and through nature-based experiences and reasonable risky play;  
(b) How learning and being outdoors in a nature-based setting impacts the ONB program of daily activities; 
(c) What ONB programming looks like or areas of focus for each age group being served; 
(d) How the certified ONB program will provide an inclusive learning environment for all children in care; 
(e) How to guide learning and social interactions; and 
(f) The importance of nature-based play to a child's learning process. 
(5) A certified ONB program must provide children with opportunities to choose from a variety of developmentally appropriate activities and experiences which include: 
(a) Language and literacy development; 
(b) Creative expression through the arts; 
(c) Dramatic play; 
(d) Gross motor development; 
(e) Fine motor development; 
(f) Music and movement; 
(g) Opportunities to listen and speak; 
(h) Concept development; and 
(i) Sensory play. 
(6) A certified ONB program must not provide or allow a child to have more than 2.5 hours of screen time per week. 
(a) When the internet is accessible for children's use, the ONB program must ensure that children do not have access to inappropriate websites, email, instant messaging, or similar communication technology. 
(b) Screen time is defined as time spent using electronic devices, including, but not limited to computers, television, tablets, phones and game consoles but does not include assistive or adaptive technology for children with disabilities. 
(c) Usage times may be extended for physical activity guidance, special events, projects (i.e., coding lessons) and homework. 
(d) All media exposure must be developmentally and age appropriate, non-violent, and culturally sensitive.  
(e) When screen time is a group activity, at least one alternative activity must be available for children who do not want to participate. 
(7) A certified ONB program must take precautions to protect children from excessive sun exposure, including but not limited to: 
(a) Applying sunscreen to children. ONB programs must comply with requirements regarding sunscreen in OAR 414-320-1030(7), including parent permission; 
(b) Ensuring access to shaded areas or having children wear protective clothing and hats; and 
(c) Limiting direct sun exposure when children do not have sunscreen applied.  
(8) A certified ONB program, in addition to carrying out benefit-risk assessments, pursuant to OAR 414-320-0215, must engage children in a developmentally appropriate assessment of risky play by: 
(a) Providing additional instructional support when children engage in new levels of risky play; 
(b) Helping children determine risks and identify ways to mitigate risk; 
(c) Prohibiting staff from physically placing children into risky situations, such as in trees or on top of boulders; and 
(d) Encouraging children to accept their current levels of ability while supporting opportunities for growth. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
