



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 30 STANDARDS FOR APPROVED RECOVERY SCHOOLS 
 581-030-0005 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) “ADM" means average daily membership as calculated based on the procedures and definitions in OAR 581-023-0006. 

 (2) “ADMw” means the weighted Average Daily Membership for a Recovery School. 

 (3) “Applicant” means an education service district, school district, or public charter school. 

 (4) “Approved Recovery School” means a publicly funded school established by agreement with the Oregon Department of Education and operated by an education service district, school district, or public charter school to provide students enrolled in the school with: 

 (a) Educational services leading up to a diploma for grades 9 through 12; and 

 (b) Behavioral health services related to recovery and relapse prevention from substance use disorders. 

 (5)(a) “Behavioral Health Services” means recovery support services for substance use disorders and mental health. For the purpose of operating an approved recovery school, this does not include substance use disorders treatment services, medical, or psychiatric services. 

 (b) Examples of behavioral health services may include providing Certified Recovery Mentors, Peer Support Specialists, Certified Alcohol and Drug Counselors. 

 (6) “ESD” means an education service district as defined in ORS 334.003. 

 (7) “Minimum Basis of Funding” means an amount that is determined by the program administrator to provide a minimum level of funding for a Recovery School, where enrollment levels may not be adequate to provide sufficient funding for startup. 

 (8) “Primary Campus” means the school facility located within the applicant’s geographic boundary. 

 (9) “Public Charter School” means a public school as defined in ORS 338.005. 

 (10) “Recovery” has the meaning described by the Association of Recovery Schools in the Accreditation Manual document. 

 (11) “Satellite Campus” means a school facility that is not the primary campus and may be located outside of the applicant’s geographical boundary. 

 (12) “School District” means a common or union high school district as defined in ORS 332.002. 

 (13) “SEIA Formula Balance” means the proration of remaining State Education Initiative Account funds to be distributed equitably amongst all Recovery Schools, where ADMw will be used in the numerator. 

 (14) "Statewide Average General Purpose Grant per ADMw" means the aggregate general-purpose grants for all school districts divided by total ADMw for all school districts. 

 (15) “Substance Use Disorder” as defined in DSM-5-TR, means disorders related to the taking of a drug of abuse including alcohol, the side effects of a medication, or a toxin exposure. The disorders include substance use disorders and substance-induced disorders, which include substance intoxication and withdrawal, and substance-related disorders such as delirium, neuro-cognitive disorders, and substance-induced psychotic disorder. 

 (16) “Substance Use Disorders Treatment Services” means outpatient, intensive outpatient, and residential services and supports for individuals with substance use disorders. 

 (17) “Urinalysis Test” means a sensitive, rapid, and inexpensive immunoassay screen that identifies the presence of a specific drug or metabolite in a urine specimen to eliminate "true negative" specimens from further consideration. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 336.680 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 336.680 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 52-2024, adopt filed 10/25/2024, effective 10/25/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
