



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 222 STATIONARY SOURCE PLANT SITE EMISSION LIMITS 
 340-222-0090 
 Combining and Splitting Sources and Changing Primary SIC Code 
 
 (1) Two or more sources may combine into one source if the criteria in subsection (a) are met. When two or more sources combine into one source under this rule, the combined source is subject to the criteria in subsection (b).  (a) Two or more sources may combine into one source only if all of the following criteria are met:  (A) All individual sources that are being combined must be located within or impact the same airshed; and  (B) The combined source must have the same primary 4-digit SIC code as at least one of the individual sources that are being combined.  (b) The combined source is regulated as one source, subject to the following:  (A) The combined source netting basis is the sum of the individual sources’ netting basis, provided that the netting basis of any individual source being combined may only be included in the combined source’s netting basis if that individual source has a primary or secondary 2-digit SIC code that is the same as the primary or a secondary 2-digit SIC code of the combined source.  (B) The simple act of combining sources, without an increase over the combined PSEL, does not subject the combined source to Major or State NSR.  (C) If the combined source PSEL, without a requested increase over the existing combined PSEL, exceeds the combined netting basis plus the SER, the source may continue operating at the existing combined source PSEL without becoming subject to NSR until such time that the source requests an increase in the PSEL or the source is modified. If a source requests an increase in the PSEL or the source is modified, DEQ will evaluate whether NSR will be required.  (2) When one source is split into two or more separate sources, or when a source changes its primary activity (primary 2-digit SIC code):  (a) The netting basis and SER may be transferred to one or more resulting source or sources only if:  (A) The primary 2-digit SIC code of the resulting source is the same as one of the primary or secondary 2-digit SIC codes that applied at the original source; or  (B) The resulting source and the original source have different primary 2-digit SIC codes but DEQ determines the activities described by the two different primary 2-digit SIC codes are essentially the same.  (b) The netting basis and the SER for the original source are split amongst the resulting sources as requested by the original permittee.  (c) The amount of the netting basis that is transferred to the resulting source or sources may not exceed the potential to emit of the existing devices or emissions units involved in the split.  (d) The split of netting basis and SER must either:  (A) Be sufficient to avoid NSR for each of the newly created sources; or  (B) The newly created source that becomes subject to NSR must comply with the requirements of OAR 340 division 224 before beginning operation under the new arrangement.  (3) The owner or operator of the source, device or emissions unit must maintain records of physical changes and changes in the method operation occurring since the baseline period or most recent Major NSR or Type A State NSR action under OAR 340 division 224. These records must be included in any future evaluation under OAR 340-224-0025 (major modification).  NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020, 468A.025, 468A.040 & 468A.310 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468A 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 7-2015, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-15 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 DEQ 6-2001, f. 6-18-01, cert. ef. 7-1-01 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
