



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 300 FUEL TANK SEISMIC STABILITY 
 340-300-0001 
 Purpose and Applicability 
 
 (1) The purpose of these rules is to protect public health, life safety and environmental safety against fires and release of fuel products and establish: 

 (a) The process and criteria for completion of facility-wide Seismic Vulnerability Assessments, including vulnerability to shaking associated with the Cascadia Subduction Zone and other earthquake sources and related post-earthquake secondary effects, performed by the facilities and submitted to DEQ for review and approval. 

 (b) The process and criteria for development of Risk Mitigation Implementation Plans to minimize risk to people and environment and to be prepared by facilities and submitted to DEQ for review and approval. 

 (c) Fees for Seismic Vulnerability Assessment reviews. 

 (d) Fees for Risk Mitigation Implementation Plan reviews. 

 (e) The process, criteria, and schedule for Risk Mitigation Implementation Plans implementation. 

 (f) Fees for ongoing implementation compliance. 

 (g) Reporting requirements. 

 (h) Enforcement provisions. 

 (2) The owners and operators of bulk fuel terminals or industrial facilities with at least 2-million-gallon oil or liquid fuel products storage capacity located in Columbia, Multnomah and Lane counties must: 

 (a) Prepare and submit to DEQ the facility-wide Seismic Vulnerability Assessment. 

 (b) Prepare and submit to DEQ the facility-wide Seismic Risk Mitigation Implementation Plan designed to: 

 (A) Mitigate earthquake-induced damage in order to reduce the potential of fuel spills and fires; 

 (B) Address potential of facility to safely shut down during or immediately after a damaging earthquake, if needed, in order to minimize spills as required by the performance objective defined in 340-300-0002; 

 (c) Provide risk mitigation measures implementation plans and timeline; and 

 (d) Provide periodic reports of the ongoing implementation of mitigation measures. 

 (e) Implement the risk minimization measures described in Risk Mitigation Implementation Plans when approved by DEQ within the approved timeline. 

 (f) Prepare and submit to DEQ post-implementation reports documenting completion of mitigation work and addressing residual risks. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020 & SB 1567 (2022) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  SB 1567 (2022) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 13-2023, adopt filed 09/14/2023, effective 09/14/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
