



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 270 COMMUNITY HEAT PUMP DEPLOYMENT PROGRAM 
 330-270-0050 
 Funding application, funding award and agreement 
 
 (1) An eligible entity may apply for a grant by submitting a complete grant application. The application must meet requirements provided by applicable statutes, these rules and the applicable funding announcement. 

 (2) The application must be submitted using a form specified by the Department and include at a minimum the following information: 

 (a) Identification of applicant and partners: 

 (A) The name of the applicant. 

 (B) The name, address, email address and telephone number of the responsible party for the applicant. 

 (C) The names and roles of any partners to the application. 

 (b) The region or federally recognized Indian tribe in Oregon the entity is applying for. 

 (c) A description of how the entity serves or represents: 

 (A) An environmental justice community or communities within a region; or 

 (B) Members of a federally recognized Indian tribe in Oregon. 

 (d) A description of: 

 (A) The entity’s capacity to administer any grant funds received. 

 (B) The proposed financial offerings and heat pump installation requirements. 

 (C) The proposed methods to prioritize financial assistance to the individuals and communities listed in OAR 330-270-0040(17). This should include a description of how individuals and communities that meet more than one prioritization category will be prioritized. 

 (D) The upgrades eligible to receive financial assistance. 

 (E) The estimated budget for administrative and marketing expenses. 

 (e) Other information requested in the application. 

 (3) The Department will evaluate all applications for funding to ensure the requirements in statute, rule, and in the funding announcement are met. In awarding grants, the Department shall give preference to eligible entities with: 

 (a) Experience in administering state grant programs or programs similar to the Heat Pump Deployment Program. 

 (b) Experience with community program development within a region or with members of a tribe 

 (c) Connections to communities within a region or with members of a tribe. 

 (4)(a) Eligible entities selected to be awarded a grant shall have 30 calendar days from the date on which the performance agreement is provided to the applicant to accept the performance agreement. An applicant’s failure to accept the performance agreement by the deadline may cause the rejection of the grant application. 

 (b) If an eligible entity fails to enter into a performance agreement within 30 calendar days of the date on which the department provided the performance agreement to the entity, the department may select an alternative applicant. 

 (5) The performance agreement must include the following terms and may also include additional terms: 

 (a) The maximum amount of the grant and the entity to which funds will be disbursed. 

 (b) The maximum duration of the performance agreement. 

 (c) Record keeping, reporting, and compliance monitoring requirements as detailed in OAR 330-270-0060. 

 (d) A provision allowing the performance agreement to be terminated for reasons stated in the agreement and subject to terms described in the agreement. 

 (e) The grant payment schedule. 

 (f) Provisions regarding repayment of unspent funds at checkpoints specified in the agreement and at the end of the of the agreement. Unspent funds that are repaid may be reallocated by the Department to one or more grantees based upon the funding allocation formula in OAR 330-270-0020(5). Calculation of reallocated funds using the formula will exclude those grantees who have repaid unspent funds. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Oregon Laws 2022, Chapter 86 (Senate Bill 1536) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Oregon Laws 2022, Chapter 86 (Senate Bill 1536) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 1-2023, adopt filed 02/13/2023, effective 02/13/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
