



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS 
 581-017-0885 
 Definitions 
 
 The following definitions apply to OAR 581-017-0885 to 581-017-0910: 

 (1) “Immigrant” means an individual who was born in another country and permanently resides in the United States. 

 (2) “Asylum Seeker” means a person who has or is actively seeking protection and/or permanent relocation from inside of the U.S. due to having experienced grave danger because their home government is unwilling or unable to protect them or may be actively persecuting them. 

 (3) “Refugee” means a person who has or is actively seeking protection and/or permanent relocation from outside of the U.S. due to having experienced grave danger because their home government is unwilling or unable to protect them or may be actively persecuting them. 

 (4) “English Learner” means students who receive English language instruction, support, and services as part of an English language development (ELD) program as English learners. 

 (5) “Multilingual Learners” means students who speak multiple languages and may or may not be eligible to receive English language instruction, support as part of an English language development (ELD) program. 

 (6) Asexual means a person who does not experience sexual attraction, but could still experience other forms of attraction (e.g. emotional, intellectual). 

 (7) Agender means a person who does not identify with a specific gender or feels neutral when it comes to their gender identity. 

 (8) Bisexual means a person who is attracted to more than one gender. 

 (9) Cisgender means a person who feels their gender identity and expression align with the gender they were assigned at birth or by society. 

 (10) Community-Based Organization means a nonprofit organization that is reflective of a community or significant segments of a community it seeks to serve. 

 (11) Community Voice means that members representing the community served by the project will be involved in co-constructing the project design, implementation, and/or providing strategic guidance in final decision-making. 

 (12) Culturally Specific Organization means an organization that serves a particular cultural community and is primarily staffed and led by members of that community; these organizations demonstrate: intimate knowledge of lived experience of the community, including but not limited to the impact of structural and individual racism or discrimination on the community; knowledge of specific disparities, barriers or challenges documented in the community and how that influences the structure of their program or service; commitment to the community’s strength-based and selfdriven thriving and resilience; ability to describe and adapt their services to the community’s cultural practices, health and safety beliefs/practices, positive cultural identity/pride, religious beliefs, etc. 

 (13) Department means the Oregon Department of Education. 

 (14) Disproportionate refers to unequal or inequitable differences in access and outcomes that historical and current-day White supremacy has created between certain families, children and students. What is “proportionate,” however, must also be critically analyzed and addressed in terms of its values, intent, and ideology. (14) Gay means a person who is attracted to a person of the same gender. 

 (15) Lesbian means a woman-identified person who is attracted to women. 

 (16) Non-binary/Genderqueer means people whose gender is not exclusively male or female, including those who identify with a gender other than male or female, as more than one gender, or as no gender. 

 (17) Partnership means a group of organizations, Tribes, districts or individuals who agree to work together with a common interest and shared vision. In a partnership, there is a high level of trust and 2-way communication, and differences in power and privilege are addressed. Roles and responsibilities on all sides are well-defined and developed with shared authority in decision making. There might be shared space and staff, with expectations and agreements in writing. 

 (18) Plan Student means a student enrolled in early childhood through postsecondary education who: (a)Is an asylum seeker, a refugee or any other immigrant, regardless of status; and (b) Has experienced disproportionate results in education due to current and historical practices and policies, as identified by the State Board of Education by rule. 

 (19) Transgender: A person who feels their gender identity and expression do not align with the sex they were assigned at birth or by society. 

 (20) Two-Spirit is a term used within some Indigenous communities, encompassing cultural, spiritual, sexual and gender identity. The term reflects complex Indigenous understandings of gender roles, spirituality, and the long history of sexual and gender diversity in Indigenous cultures. Individual terms and roles for Two-Spirit people are specific to each nation. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  SB 1532 (2024) & ORS 329.849 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  SB 1532 (2024) & ORS 329.849 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 58-2024, adopt filed 12/06/2024, effective 12/06/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 40-2024, temporary adopt filed 06/14/2024, effective 06/14/2024 through 12/10/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
