



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-1340 
 Tool Activity Supervision and Safety 
 
 (1) During tool activities, a certified ONB program must comply with all supervision requirements described in this section. 
(2) A certified ONB program using developmentally appropriate outdoor nature based tools or equipment as part of their curriculum must make such tools inaccessible to children when not in use.   
(3) Before a child can participate in tool activities, a certified ONB program must obtain written permission from the children's parents or guardians that allows them to participate in such activities. 
(4) Power tools may not be used by children and must be kept inaccessible to children. 
(5) Folding whittling knives must be equipped with a locking feature to keep knives open when in use. 
(6) There must be a one-to-one (1:1) staff-to-child ratio for: 
(a) Any preschool-age child who is engaged in a tool activity; and 
(b) Any school-age child who is not proficient in using the tool for the activity. 
(7) There must be a one-to-three (1:3) staff-to-child ratio for any school-age children who have previously demonstrated proficiency in specific tool use. 
(8) Before engaging in and leading a tool activity, staff must be trained in the ONB program's tool use policies and procedures and benefit-risk assessments. 
(9) The ONB program director must observe, confirm, and document staff members' ability to properly use ONB tools before the staff member may lead tool use activities. 
(10) A certified ONB program must have a first-aid kit near the tool activity that is in compliance with the requirements described in OAR 414-320-1020, Injuries, and is equipped with first-aid supplies made specifically to treat sharp cuts, punctures, or other injuries related to the use of tools. 
(11) Prior to any tool use activity, a certified ONB program must use developmentally appropriate teaching practices to ensure children understand and can demonstrate safe tool use. Teaching techniques must include, but not be limited to: 
(a) Safe whittling practices, including using a push stroke away from the body and hand holding the piece of wood;  
(b) Holding a piece of wood past one's knees, to the side of one's body, or on the top of a table; 
(c) Wearing work or gardening gloves, especially on the hand that is not holding the tool; 
(d) Wearing safety goggles and other protective clothing, when appropriate; 
(e) Children sitting on their knees with their legs tucked under, sitting cross-legged, or at a table; 
(f) Allowing appropriate space between children using tools; and 
(g) Demonstrated understanding and proficiency of less risky tools prior to the use of tools that may pose a greater risk. 
(12) When using tools, the children must remain in an area designated for tool activities. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
