



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Forestry 
 Chapter 629 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 42 FIRE CONTROL 
 629-042-1065 
 Training Provider Accreditation, Suspension, and Revocation 
 
 (1) A training provider shall obtain accreditation from the Forester prior to conducting or documenting training required by OAR 629-042-1025. 
(2) To request accreditation, prospective training providers shall make application to the Forester and sign an accreditation agreement. 
(3) Training providers will not be considered accredited until the Forester reviews and approves their application. 
(4) Applications shall include, but will not be limited to: 
(a) A list of the specific training, either initial, renewal, or both to be provided or documented; and 
(b) Evidence the person has had at least two years of experience in teaching adults and also two years of experience as a practitioner of the specific training to be provided or documented. 
(5) Accreditation agreements shall include, but will not be limited to: 
(a) A requirement to provide training using only curricula or course manuals approved by the Forester; 
(b) A requirement to send all training completion records to the Forester within the period of time required by the Forester; 
(c) A requirement to maintain training completion records for a minimum of six years; 
(d) A requirement to document successful completion of a training requirement of OAR 629-042-1025 or a test required by OAR 629-042-1030 only for which they are accredited and for which they have personal knowledge that the person has properly completed the task being documented; and 
(e) A requirement that no entry of false information be made into a field certification book to be submitted to the Forester. 
(6) Temporary Suspension of documentation authority. 
(a) The Forester may immediately suspend the documentation authority of a training provider at any time the Forester determines that the training provider has failed to comply with all requirements of the accreditation agreement. A training provider may appeal the temporary suspension of documentation authority is the same manner as section 7(c) of this rule. 
(b) Within 30 calendar days of suspending the documentation authority of a training provider, the Forester must either initiate action to revoke the accreditation of the training provider or restore the documentation authority of the training provider. 
(7) Revocation of accreditation 
(a) The Forester may revoke the accreditation of a training provider at any time the Forester determines that the training provider has failed to comply with all requirements of the accreditation agreement. 
(b) The Forester shall provide written notice to the training provider of the intent to revoke an accreditation. The Forester may not revoke an accreditation until after 30 calendar days from the date of notice. 
(c) Accreditation revocation review and appeals procedures: 
(A) A training provider may request that the Certified Burn Manager Advisory Committee review a decision to revoke an accreditation, by submitting a request within 30 calendar days after service of the written notice required by subsection (b) above. Service is completed at the earlier of actual notice, or depositing a properly addressed written notice in first class mail, or sending an email to an address established by the training provider, 
(B) The Certified Burn Manager Advisory Committee shall conduct the requested review at its next scheduled meeting after the receipt of a request for review. 
(C) Following completion of the review requested, the Certified Burn Manager Advisory Committee shall either affirm or withdraw the revocation by majority vote. 
(D) The Forester or the training provider whose accreditation has been revoked may appeal the decision of the Certified Burn Manager Advisory Committee to the Board of Forestry, in the same manner as appeals under ORS 477.260(2). 
(E) Any final resolution by the Board of the matter raised under section (7)(c) of this rule shall be prepared as a final order, and any further appeal of the Board’s final action shall be as prescribed by ORS 183.484. 
(8) Nothing in these rules creates a right for review of revocation of training provider accreditation for employees of the Oregon Department of Forestry. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 526.360 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 526.016 & 526.041 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOF 18-2024, amend filed 09/30/2024, effective 10/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOF 8-2022, adopt filed 11/29/2022, effective 11/30/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
