



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 305 CERTIFIED CHILD CARE CENTERS 
 414-305-0230 
 Parental Permissions 
 
 (1)    A certified child care center must have the following current permissions from parent(s) when applicable:   
(a)    Documentation of permission for a person not listed in the child’s records to pick up the child that includes: 
(A)    Date and time of the permission;  
(B)    Period of time the permission is valid;  
(C)    Name of the individual providing permission;  
(D)    Name of the individual permitted to pick up the child; and  
(E)    Name of the center staff receiving the permission.  
(b)    Signed and dated parent permission for each medication, prior to administration, that includes: 
(A)    The child’s name;  
(B)    The name of and reason for the medication;  
(C)    The dosage, dates, and times to administer the medication, and how the medication will be given; and  
(D)    Whether the medication needs to be refrigerated.   
(c)    For chronic medical conditions, a certified child care center may obtain permission for 12 months or less with specific instructions including when administration is needed, such as diaper cream and inhalers (also see OAR 414-305-1030, Medications).  
(d)    Parental permission for participation in any center-sponsored religious or cultural event. Parental permission is also required for any special occasions where food is served; 
(e)    A certified child care center must have signed parent permission prior to transporting a child that includes: 
(A)    The child’s name; 
(B)    The purpose of transportation;  
(C)    Whether a center or personal vehicle is used and whether the driver is staff or a volunteer; and 
(D)    A specific pick-up and drop-off plan that addresses the location, times, and transfer of supervision. 
(f)    Parental permission for a school-age child to leave the facility on their own. 
(g)    Permission to bathe a child, if necessary.  
(2)    A certified child care center must have parent permission prior to a field trip or other activity away from the immediate neighborhood. Field trip permission must be specific with dates, times, and locations for each field trip.  
(3)    A certified child care center must inform and obtain written permission from parents for children to participate in contracted (e.g., gymnastics, music) or individualized services (e.g., therapeutic or medical services) not directly operated by the center. The permission form must state that the services are not licensed by CCLD. 
(4)    A certified child care center must have parental permission prior to a high risk activity, such as swimming, on or off the premises, and share the safety plan with parents that includes:  
(a)    Minimum ratios for the activity;  
(b)    Conditions for the child's participation, such as their age and skill levels;  
(c)    Special equipment necessary, such as safety helmets or specific clothing; and  
(d)    Safety practices followed. 
(5)    A certified child care center must obtain parental permission prior to using photographs or recordings of a child publicly (e.g. social media, advertisements).  
(6)    If a family served by a certified child care center is experiencing homelessness, the center must make efforts to follow OAR 414-305-0230 (1) through(5). If a certified child care center is unable to acquire written parental permissions, permissions may be received verbally, when documented by the certified child care center, or electronically, such as through a text message or e-mail. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 28-2024, minor correction filed 04/11/2024, effective 04/11/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELD 10-2023, adopt filed 06/28/2023, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
