



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 360 CERTIFIED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-360-0900 
 Furniture, Equipment and Play Materials 
 
 (1)    A provider must ensure that furniture used by child care children is: 
(a)    Cleanable; 
(b)    Safely constructed and lead free, with no rough or sharp edges or loose parts; and 
(c)    In good working condition and repair with no holes or tears; and 
(d)    Stable or anchored. 
(2)    A provider must ensure that furniture is child-sized or adapted for infants, toddlers, and preschool-age children’s use.  
(3)    A provider must provide an individual bed, mat, cot, or other sleep equipment for: 
(a)     Each toddler and preschool-age child at nap time;  
(b)    Each school-age child who wants to rest; and  
(c)    A child that needs to be isolated due to illness. 
(4)    Each cot, mat, and other sleep equipment must: 
(a)    Be durable and in good repair; and 
(b)    Be able to be cleaned and sanitized.  
(5)    Floor mats must be: 
(a)    Designed for sleeping; 
(b)    At least one inch thick; and 
(c)    Covered in a water-resistant material. 
(6)    A provider must ensure that each child 12 months or age and older is provided with individual bedding consisting of at least a sheet or blanket.  
(7)    Family beds or sofas may be used with individual bedding. 
(8)    If a child’s parent requests, siblings may share the same bed. 
(9)    The upper level of bunk beds may only be used for children 10 years of age and older and must have a bed rail and safety ladder in place. 
(10)    A provider must provide play equipment and materials that are: 
(a)    Appropriate to the developmental needs, interests and abilities of the children; 
(b)    Sturdy and free of sharp points or corners, splinters, protruding nails or bolts, loose or rusty parts, or paint that contains lead or other toxic materials; 
(c)    Easy to clean and sanitize, or be disposable; 
(d)    In good condition; and 
(e)    Easily accessible to the children. 
(11)    A provider must offer a quantity and variety of play materials (i.e., toys, books, and games) that:  
(a)    Is sufficient to avoid competition for popular items; and  
(b)    Provide for the variety of activities required in OAR 414-360-0520 Program Schedule & Activities; 
(12)    Activities that include a tool that could pose a safety risk (e.g., iron, glue gun, woodworking tool) are limited to preschool and school-age children. 
(a)    Caregivers must first instruct children in the tool’s proper use and safety measures. 
(b)    Caregivers must be within arm’s reach of the children participating in the activity to reduce the risk of injury. 
(13)    A provider must provide culturally and racially diverse learning opportunities within activities and materials that represent all children, families and caregivers. Examples of this may include: Diverse dolls, books, games or materials that do not reinforce stereotypes; diverse music from many cultures in children's primary languages; a balance of different ethnic and cultural groups, ages, abilities, family styles, and genders. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 138-2024, adopt filed 12/11/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
