



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 68 IDENTIFICATION, NOTIFICATION, SALE AND EXCHANGE, CLEARING TITLE, OR RESERVATION OF HISTORICALLY FILLED LANDS, AND APPROVAL TO CREATE, SELL, EXCHANGE OR RESERVE NEW LANDS 
 141-068-0140 
 General Requirements for Appraisals 
 
 (1) Appraisals conducted for land sales, purchases or exchanges shall comply with the following requirements:  (a) Be conducted by a State of Oregon-licensed appraiser familiar with the type of property to be appraised and in accordance with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) standards.  (b) Unless directed otherwise by the Department, the appraisal shall estimate the fair market value of the property based on its Highest and Best use, taking into account the contributory value of all offered interests in the property such as water rights, minerals, or timber to the extent that such interests are consistent with the highest and best use of the property.  (c) The appraisal report must include sufficient description of the property, highest and best use analysis, valuation methodology and support materials to fully document and justify the appraiser’s estimate of fair market value.  (d) The Department may, based on the particular use of the appraisal, impose additional requirements or conditions on the appraisal.  (2) For land sales, purchases or exchanges where the estimated fair market value of the lands or interest in lands is $100,000 or less, the Department may utilize a “desk appraisal” or a “letter opinion of value” as the Appraisal required under these rules.  (3) For purposes of this section, a “desk appraisal” is a written statement setting forth an opinion as to the market value of the lands or interest in lands as of a specific date. A desk appraisal conducted for land sales, purchases or exchanges shall comply with the following requirements:  (a) The desk appraisal must be conducted by an employee of the Department. A desk appraisal need not be prepared in accordance with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP), as desk appraisals performed by an employee of the Department are not required to be performed by State of Oregon-licensed appraiser pursuant to ORS 674.100(2)(h).  (b) Unless directed otherwise by the Department, the desk appraisal shall estimate the fair market value of the property based on its highest and best use, taking into account the contributory value of all offered interests in the property such as water rights, minerals, or timber to the extent that such interests are consistent with the highest and best use of the property.  (c) The desk appraisal must include a sufficient description of the characteristics of the property, a highest and best use analysis, a description of the valuation methodology, and a description of the support materials utilized to fully document and justify the estimate of fair market value. The description of the characteristics of the property, and description of the characteristics of properties used as comparison to the property, may be based on aerial and topographic photographs and maps and on generally accepted property data resources, such as the United States Department of Agriculture — Natural Resources Conservation Service, county assessor tax lot information, multiple listing services, and similar resources. Field inspections of the property and of the properties used as comparison to the property are not required as part of the desk appraisal.  (4) For purposes of this section, a “letter opinion of value” is a written statement from a real estate professional licensed under ORS 696 setting forth an opinion as to the market value of the lands prepared in accordance with the requirements of OAR 863-015-0190(3). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 273 & 274 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 274.905-274.956 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-12-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2016, f. 5-13-16, cert. ef. 6-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
