



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 16 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES 
 350-016-0110 
 Interpreter for Individuals with a Disability and Non-English Speaking Persons in Contested Case 
 
 (1) When an individual with a disability or a non-English-speaking person is a party or witness in a contested case proceeding, the Gorge Commission shall appoint an interpreter to assist the party or witness throughout the proceeding or provide an assistive communication device. The Gorge Commission shall pay the fees and expenses of the interpreter that the Gorge Commission appoints or the assistive communication device. 

 (2) Gorge Commission appointment of interpreter. 

 (a) The Gorge Commission shall, when possible, appoint a qualified spoken language interpreter who is on the list of certified or qualified interpreters maintained by a state or federal court with jurisdiction in the National Scenic Area. 

 (b) The Gorge Commission may make a predetermination that an interpreter is qualified to provide parties with: 

 (A) Visual translation or sight translation of forms, notices, proposed exhibits, briefs, and orders, either before or following the hearing; and 

 (B) Visual or spoken-language interpretation of oral communication with the Gorge Commission that is not on the record. 

 (c) Persons with a conflict of interest with any of the parties or witnesses or relatives of any participant in a proceeding and employees of the agency involved in a proceeding shall not be appointed as interpreters in the proceeding. The Gorge Commission’s payment to an interpreter does not constitute a conflict of interest. 

 (d) The Gorge Commission shall make a preliminary determination that an interpreter is able in the particular proceeding to interpret accurately all communication to and from the person in need of the interpreter. This determination shall be based upon the testimony or stated needs of the person in need of the interpreter, the interpreter’s education, certifications, and experience in interpreting for contested cases or adjudicative proceedings, the interpreter’s understanding of the basic vocabulary and procedure involved in the proceeding, and the interpreter’s impartiality. The parties or their representatives may question the interpreter as to their qualifications and impartiality. 

 (e) If in the opinion of the person in need of the interpreter, the Gorge Commission, or a qualified observer, the interpreter does not provide accurate and effective communication with the person in need of the interpreter, or if the interpreter is unable to understand, cannot be understood by, or is unable to work cooperatively with the Gorge Commission, the Gorge Commission shall appoint another interpreter. 

 (3) If a party or witness is dissatisfied with the interpreter selected by the Gorge Commission, the party or witness may, at their sole expense, use any other interpreter that satisfies the qualifications in section (2) of this rule. 

 (4) Mode of interpretation. 

 (a) The Gorge Commission recognizes three spoken language interpreting modes: consecutive, simultaneous, and sight translation. Sight translation means the act of reading a written text out loud. 

 (b) An interpreter for a non-English-speaking person shall use the simultaneous mode of interpretation where the Gorge Commission and interpreter agree that simultaneous interpretation will advance fairness and efficiency; otherwise, the consecutive mode of foreign language interpretation shall be used. 

 (c) An interpreter for an individual with a hearing disability shall use the simultaneous mode of interpretation unless an intermediary interpreter is needed. If an intermediary interpreter is needed, the interpreter shall use the mode that the interpreter considers to provide the most accurate and effective communication with the person in need of the interpreter. 

 (d) When a person in need of the interpreter is a party to a proceeding, the interpreter shall interpret all statements made by other hearing participants. The Gorge Commission shall ensure that sufficient extra time is provided to permit interpretation and the Gorge Commission shall ensure that the interpreter interprets the entire proceeding to the party to the extent that the party has the same opportunity to understand all statements made during the proceeding as parties not needing interpretation listening to uninterpreted statements would have. 

 (5) An interpreter shall not, without the written consent of the parties to the communication, be examined as to any communication the interpreter interprets under circumstances where the communication is privileged by law. An interpreter shall not, without the written consent of the parties to the communication, be examined as to any information the interpreter obtains while interpreting pertaining to any proceeding then pending. 

 (6) The Gorge Commission shall explain to the party in need of the interpreter that a written order will be issued in English, and that a visual translation or sight translation of the decision is available at no cost to the party. 

 (7) The Gorge Commission shall attach to or include in the order a telephone number to request a visual translation or sight translation. 

 (8) If the party has a right to review the order, the Gorge Commission shall orally inform the party during the hearing of the right and of the time limits to request review. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015 & 16 U.S.C. 544c(b) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015 & 16 U.S.C. 544c(b) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2026, adopt filed 07/22/2026, effective 09/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
