



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Pharmacy 
 Chapter 855 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 141 PHARMACY PRESCRIPTION KIOSK 
 855-141-0300 
 Prescription: General Requirements 
 
 (1) Prescriptions, prescription refills, and drug orders must be correctly dispensed in accordance with the prescribing practitioner's authorization.  

 (2) Each PPK Affiliated Pharmacy must document the following information for each prescription: 

 (a) The name and date of birth of the patient for whom the drug is prescribed, unless for an animal. 

 (b) If for an animal, the name of the patient, name the owner and the species of the animal. 

 (c) The full name, address, and contact phone number of the practitioner.  

 (d) The name, strength, dosage forms of the substance, quantity prescribed and, if different from the quantity prescribed, the quantity dispensed; 

 (e) The directions for use, if given by the practitioner; and 

 (f) The date of filling, and the total number of refills authorized by the prescribing practitioner. 

 (3) In accordance with ORS 689.515(3), a practitioner may specify in writing, by a telephonic communication or by electronic transmission that there may be no substitution for the specified brand name drug in a prescription. 

 (a) For a hard copy prescription issued in writing or a prescription orally communicated over the telephone, instruction must use one of the following phrases or notations: 

 (A) No substitution; 

 (B) N.S.; 

 (C) Brand medically necessary; 

 (D) Brand necessary; 

 (E) Medically necessary; 

 (F) D.A.W. (Dispense As Written); or 

 (G) Words with similar meaning. 

 (b) For an electronically transmitted prescription, the prescriber or prescriber’s agent must clearly indicate substitution instructions by way of the text (without quotes) “brand medically necessary” or words with similar meaning, in the electronic prescription drug order, as well as all relevant electronic indicators sent as part of the electronic prescription transmission. 

 (c) Such instructions must not be default values on the prescription. 

 (4) A PPK or Pharmacist filling a prescription or order for a biological product must not substitute a biosimilar product for the prescribed biological product unless: 

 (a) The biosimilar product has been determined by the United States Food and Drug Administration to be interchangeable with the prescribed biological product; 

 (b) The prescribing practitioner has not designated on the prescription that substitution is prohibited; 

 (c) The patient for whom the biological product is prescribed is informed of the substitution prior to dispensing the biosimilar product; 

 (d) The PPK Affiliated Pharmacy or Pharmacist provides written, electronic or telephonic notification of the substitution to the prescribing practitioner or the prescribing practitioner’s staff within three business days of dispensing the biosimilar product; and 

 (5) The PPK must dispense prescriptions accurately and to the correct party. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 689.205 & ORS 689.522 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 689.505, ORS 689.515 & ORS 689.522 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BP 50-2022, adopt filed 12/20/2022, effective 02/15/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
