



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Medical Assistance Programs - Chapter 410 
 
 
 
 
 Division 153 Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics (CCBHC) Services 
 410-153-0005 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) “Access facility” means an outpatient setting owned and operated by a CCBHC and subject to approval by the Authority that provides low barrier services that facilitate engagement and access to care within the scope of CCBHC. Access facilities offer unscheduled, voluntary services.  

 (2) “Allowable Costs” means costs permitted under Oregon Health Authority’s (Authority) Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinic (CCBHC) Cost Report adherent to 45 CFR 75 (Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for HHS Services) and 42 CFR 412 (Principles of Reasonable cost Reimbursement).  

 (3) “Bundled Daily Rate” means a fixed daily, clinic-specific rate for all CCBHC services delivered during one calendar day.  

 (4) “Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinic (CCBHC)” means a provider organization that the Authority has affirmed that an organization substantially meets the federal and Oregon CCBHC standards “Oregon Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinic (CCBHC) Program Requirements Manual- Version 1” and requirements outlined in Oregon Administrative Rules (OAR) chapter 309 division 009.    

 (5) “CCBHC daily encounter” means one or more face-to-face or telephone contact between a health care professional and an individual receiving services within a 24-hour period ending at midnight as documented in the client’s record by the CCBHC or its Designated Collaborating Organizations in one calendar day. An encounter includes all eligible services, items, and supplies provided during the course of the visit.  

 (6) “Cost Report” means a financial report submitted by the CCBHC identifying total allowable costs and total CCBHC daily encounters for purposes of establishing and rebasing the bundled daily rate on a form designated by the Authority.  

 (7) “Designated Collaborating Organization” means a provider entity separate from the CCBHC which meets the requirements of OAR 410-153-0025 and is under contract with a CCBHC to deliver one or more required CCBHC services included in the bundled daily rate.  

 (8) “Medicare Economic Index (MEI)” means the inflation adjustment index applied annually to the CCBHC bundled daily rate.  

 (9) “Qualified satellite facility” means a facility that was established by the CCBHC, operated under the governance and financial control of that CCBHC, and provides the following services: crisis services; screening, diagnosis, and risk assessment; person and family centered treatment planning; and outpatient mental health and substance use services.  This facility is included within the CCBHC certification is eligible for the daily bundled rate.   

 (10) “Rebase” means process for establishing a new bundled daily rate.   

 (11) “Required CCBHC services” means CCBHCs provide directly or through written Designated Collaborating Organization agreement all of the services defined in OAR 410-153-0020 section (2).   

 (12) “Scope of Service Change” means a change in the type, intensity, duration, or volume of CCBHC services that alters the bundled daily rate by at least 5 percent.  

 (13) “Third-Party Liability (TPL), Third-Party Resource (TPR), or Third-Party Payer (TPP)” means a medical or financial resource that, under law, is available and applicable to pay for medical services and items for an Authority client.  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 & 414.065 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ​ORS 414.065​ 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 73-2025, adopt filed 09/26/2025, effective 10/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
