



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
   Temporary rule language in effect until 10/19/2026. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 149 GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO PUBLIC CONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION SERVICES 
 736-149-0390 
 Responsible Offerors; Rejection for Offeror Non-Responsibility 
 
 (1) General: Only responsible offerors are eligible for award. The department will reject offers from offerors determined not responsible by the department and provide a written summary for the basis of the determination to the offeror. 

 (2) Considerations: In determining whether an offeror is responsible, the department may seek and use information in addition to that submitted with offeror’s offer. In making its determination of responsibility, in addition to any other criteria the department deems relevant, the department may consider whether the offeror: 

 (a) Corporate Capability and Business Qualifications: Has available the appropriate financial, material, equipment, facilities, and personnel resources and expertise, or ability to obtain the resources and expertise, necessary for the offeror to meet all potential contractual obligations; 

 (b) Record of Performance: Has a satisfactory contract performance record. The department will carefully review an offeror’s contract performance record to determine if the offeror is or recently has been materially deficient in contract performance. The department will determine whether the offeror’s deficient performance was excused under the specific terms of the contract or whether the offeror took appropriate corrective action. The department may review the offeror’s performance under both private and public contracts through interviews with the other contracting party or review of performance documentation, or both; 

 (c) Record of Integrity: Has a satisfactory record of integrity. An offeror may lack integrity if the department determines the offeror demonstrates a lack of business ethics such as by evidence of offeror’s violation of state environmental laws or by making false certifications. The department may find an offeror not responsible based on the lack of integrity of any individual or entity having influence or control over the offeror (such as a key employee of the offeror that has the authority to significantly influence the offeror’s performance under the contract or a parent company, predecessor or successor individual or entity); 

 (d) Legally Authorized: Is legally authorized to contract with the department; 

 (e) Necessary Information: Promptly provided all information the department requested to facilitate the department's determination whether offeror is responsible. If the offeror fails to promptly provide requested information, the department will base its determination upon available information; and 

 (f) Disqualification: If an offeror has been disqualified by the department. The department may consider a disqualified offeror for award during the disqualification period if the director determines the offeror’s participation is in the department’s best interest. The department will specify in writing the factors and limits upon which the offeror’s participation is based. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279.025(3)(k) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279.025(3)(k) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 2-2026, temporary adopt filed 04/23/2026, effective 04/24/2026 through 10/19/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
