



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Housing and Community Services Department 
 Chapter 813 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 100 DISASTER RECOVERY AND RESILIENCE 
 813-100-0024 
 ReOregon Action Plan Amendments 
 
 (1) OHCS will amend the ReOregon Action Plan as often as necessary to best address the long-term recovery needs and goals. As programs and activities develop over time, an amendment may not be triggered if the program or activity is consistent with the descriptions provided in the Action Plan. 

 (2) When unmet needs and program descriptions or other sections rise to the level of requiring an Action Plan amendment, the State will do the following: 

 (a) Ensure that the current version of the Action Plan is accessible for viewing as a single document, with all amendments, so that the public and HUD do not have to view and cross-reference changes among multiple amendments. 

 (b) Identify amendments by highlighting added or changed text and striking out deleted text. 

 (c) Include a table that clearly illustrates where the funds are coming from and where they are going. 

 (d) Include a revised budget allocation table that reflects the entirety of all funds, if applicable to the amendment. 

 (3) Substantial Amendment: A change to the initial Action Plan is substantial if it meets any of the following criteria: 

 (a) It changes program benefits or eligibility criteria; 

 (b) It adds or deletes an activity; or 

 (c) It allocates or reallocates the greater of either $5 million or 15% or greater of a program budget. 

 (4) When OHCS pursues the substantial amendment process, the amendment will be posted on the State’s CDBG-DR website for a 30-day public comment period. The amendment will be posted in adherence with the Americans with Disabilities Act and LEP requirements. OHCS will review and respond to all public comments received and submit the comments and responses to HUD for approval. 

 (5) A substantial Action Plan amendment shall require the following: 

 (a) The State will revisit the impact and needs assessment when moving funds from one program to another through a substantial amendment. 

 (b) A 30-day public comment period will include the following: 

 (A) The State will prominently post the action plan amendment on the OHCS official disaster recovery website. 

 (B) The State will afford residents, affected local governments, and other interested parties a reasonable opportunity to review the plan or substantial amendment.  

 (C) The State will identify and consider potential barriers that limit or prohibit equitable participation and will undertake reasonable measures to increase coordination, communication, affirmative marketing, targeted outreach, and engagement with underserved communities and individuals, including persons with disabilities and persons with limited English proficiency. This includes the following: 

 (i) The Action Plan amendment will be translated according to the CDBG-DR Language Access Plan.  

 (ii) The Action Plan amendment will be posted in a way that meets all accessibility requirements. 

 (c) The State will review and respond to all written and oral public comments received. Any updates or changes made to the Action Plan in response to public comments shall be clearly identified in the Action Plan and amendments. The public comments also will be submitted to HUD with the final Action Plan amendment. 

 (d) Receipt of approval from HUD.  
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 456.555 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 458.315 - 458.317 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OHCS 25-2025, adopt filed 05/23/2025, effective 05/23/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
