



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 9 CERTIFIED COMMUNITY BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CLINIC (CCBHC) PROGRAM 
 309-009-0055 
 Types of Certifications 
 
 Based on level of readiness designation, Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics (CCBHC) will receive the following certification types: 

 (1) Full certification is given when CCBHC receives level of readiness designation of “ready to certify”. Full certification is effective for 3 years. 

 (a) Prior to certification, the CCBHC will have 30 calendar days to submit a Site Improvement Plan (SIP) to address areas of deficiency. The SIP must include a plan to achieve compliance which must not to exceed a duration of 3 years. 

 (A) When access or care to persons served is a serious issue, the CCBHC site may be given a much shorter period to initiate SIPs, and this condition may be established, in writing, as part of the Authority findings 

 (B) If the Authority identifies an issue that places a person served in imminent risk to health or safety, the Authority may require immediate response based on risk. 

 (b) The Authority will review the SIP, seek clarifying or additional information from the CCBHC site as needed, and issue a response within 30 calendar days of receipt. 

 (c) The Authority will take steps to monitor the CCBHC site’s implementation of the SIP as part of performance monitoring, including but not limited to annual check-ins over a 3-year period. 

 (2) Provisional certification is given when the CCBHC receives a level of readiness designation of “mostly meets, needs support”. Provisional certification is effective for 1 year. 

 (a) Prior to certification, the CCBHC will have 30 calendar days to submit a Site Improvement Plan (SIP) to address areas of deficiency. The SIP must include a plan to achieve compliance which must not to exceed a duration of 12 months. 

 (A) When access or care to persons served is a serious issue, the CCBHC site may be given a much shorter period to initiate SIPs, and this condition may be established, in writing, as part of the Authority findings 

 (B) If the Authority identifies an issue that places a person served in imminent risk to health or safety, the Authority may require immediate response based on risk. 

 (b) The Authority will review the SIP, seek clarifying or additional information from the CCBHC site as needed, and issue a response within 30 calendar days of receipt. 

 (c) The Authority will take steps to monitor the CCBHC site’s implementation of the SIP as part of performance monitoring, including but not limited to conducting quarterly check-ins over 12 months. 

 (d) Following 12 months, if the CCBHC site still fails to meet requirements for full certification, provisional certification will continue for an additional six (6) months of monitoring with quarterly check-ins required; 

 (e) If deficiencies are resolved, and full certification criteria has been met by the CCBHC at the conclusion of the SIP process, the CCBHC is given full certification. 

 (3) CCBHCs with full certification must submit a recertification application to the Authority in conjunction with their Chapter 309 Division 008 certifications. 

 (4) The Authority will use the level of readiness tool to review each application and verify CCBHC certification. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 & HB 4002 (2024) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 413.042 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BHS 22-2025, adopt filed 09/30/2025, effective 10/01/2025 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
