



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 333 PSILOCYBIN 
 333-333-4280 
 Surrender 
 
 (1) A licensee may request to surrender a license in a form and manner prescribed by the Oregon Health Authority (Authority). Each individual person identified as a licensee must submit a separate request, including a product plan and client record plan if applicable. The license remains in effect until the Authority accepts the surrender. The Authority may request additional information and require additional site inspections prior to accepting the surrender. 

 (2) A service center, manufacturer or laboratory license that requests to surrender its license must submit a products plan, in a form and manner prescribed by the Authority, in order to complete its surrender request. An identical products plan must be signed by every individual person identified as a licensee and must describe the licensees’ plan to dispose of psilocybin products in inventory by destroying the products or transferring psilocybin products to another license in compliance with these rules. All psilocybin products designated as waste or transferred to another license must be recorded in the product tracking system. 

 (3) A service center that requests to surrender its license must submit a client records plan, in a form and manner prescribed by the Authority, for approval in order to complete is surrender request. An identical client records plan must be signed by every individual licensee affiliated with the licensed premises and must describe the service center’s plan to: 

 (a) Destroy client records; or 

 (b) Obtain client’s written consent as described in OAR 333-333-4810 and transfer client records to another service center. 

 (4) The Authority will review product plans and client record plans and may require revisions to plans prior to accepting a surrender request. If the Authority accepts a surrender request, the Authority will notify the licensee in writing of the date of acceptance. The licensee must cease all license privileges on this date through the remainder of the licensing period. The licensee must receive a new license before engaging in any licensed activities. 

 (5) A training program may request to surrender approval of its curriculum in a form and manner prescribed by the Authority. The training program’s curriculum approval remains in effect until the Authority accepts the surrender. If the Authority accepts the surrender, the Authority will notify the training programs in writing of the date of acceptance. On or before the date of their surrender, the training program must notify any enrolled students that their curriculum is no longer approved by the Authority. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 475A.235 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 475A.235 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 82-2024, amend filed 11/22/2024, effective 01/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 206-2022, adopt filed 12/27/2022, effective 12/27/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
