



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Business Development Department 
 Chapter 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 99 INDUSTRIAL LANDS LOAN FUND 
 123-099-0040 
 Application Review and Approval 
 
 1) The Department shall review all timely and complete applications for Program financial assistance. The Department’s review shall include: 

 (a) Review of proposed projects for determination of compliance with eligible uses of program funds and loan proceeds as provided by sections 14 to 23, chapter 25, Oregon Laws 2023, and as further defined by this division of rules; 

 (b) Review of application for determination of applicant’s eligibility as a Project Sponsor as that term is defined; 

 (c) Review for completion of the application, including satisfaction of requirements provided under section 19, chapter 25, Oregon Laws 2023 and requirements provided by this division of rules; 

 (d) Consideration of the reasonableness of the Project Sponsor’s estimated costs to prepare the land for industrial use, including, but not limited to, allowable costs for land preparation; 

 (e) Consideration of the potential economic impacts for the proposed project; 

 (f) Consideration of each application and the requested amount based on program guidelines and program priorities as determined by the Department . While forgivable loans do not require match, the Department shall give preferences for projects that are not solely funded from the Department’s financial assistance;  

 (g) Applying the preferences provided by this division of rules; and 

 (h) Applying any other criteria set forth in the applicable Request for Applications (“RFA”).  

 (2) Within 30 days of the applicable RFA close date, the Department shall approve or reject program applications. 

 (3) Approved applicants shall receive a notice of intent to award, and unsuccessful applicants shall receive a letter of explanation from the Department. 

 (4)  As applicable, the notice of intent to award provided to approved applicants shall contain an offer of an amount for a program repayable or forgivable loan for a development project; and/or an offer of an amount for a program forgivable loan for a planning project. The Department may make an offer that is less than what was requested by the applicant. For development projects, the Department shall condition loan awards on satisfactory collateral or other security such as requiring a co-signer or guarantor or other conditions to secure repayment of a loan made. Generally, public entity awards shall be conditioned on a pledge of the entity’s full faith and credit and taxing power within Article XI, sections 11 and 11b of the Oregon Constitution and a pledge of appliable net revenues from the public infrastructure system that is the subject of the public entity’s development project. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 285A.075 & OR Laws 2023 ch. 25, § 19 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  OR Laws 2023 Ch. 25 §19 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 33-2023, adopt filed 12/20/2023, effective 12/20/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
