



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-0830 
 Toilets and Sinks 
 
 (1) A certified ONB program must ensure that any toileting options used by children in care are clean and safe prior to the children's use. 
(2) A certified ONB program must provide at least one of the following bathroom options and may use a combination of toileting options to ensure children and staff are able to meet their toileting needs: 
(a) An indoor bathroom in an approved facility, as indicated in OAR-320-0110(3). 
(A) If utilizing indoor bathroom space, the certified ONB program must ensure that the bathroom has smooth, washable, easily-cleaned walls and floors in the toileting and handwashing areas. 
(B) Indoor toilets must: 
(i) Be supplied with toilet paper; 
(ii) Have doors that can be unlocked from the outside with an opening device readily accessible to staff, if equipped with doors; and 
(iii) Provide privacy for school-age children, such as being screened, equipped with doors, or having children take turns while supervision is maintained. 
(C) Indoor bathrooms must have handwashing sinks that: 
(i) Have hot and cold running water; 
(ii) If self-closing metered faucets are used, provide water flow for at least 15 seconds without the need to reactivate the faucet; 
(iii) Have water that does not exceed 120°F; 
(iv) Have liquid soap and paper towels within easy reach of children and dispensed in a sanitary manner with a trash container. Other hand drying options must be approved by the environmental health specialist; and 
(v) Are not used for preparation of food or drinks, dish washing, rinsing soiled clothing, cleaning equipment that is used for toileting, or for the disposal of any wastewater used in cleaning the ONB program. 
(b) A portable chemical toilet designated for use by the certified ONB program. The portable chemical toilet must be emptied regularly and as needed. The portable chemical toilet surfaces must be cleaned at least once each day and more often if needed. 
(A) The waste container for the portable chemical toilet must be: 
(i) Fabricated from impervious materials, such as plastic, steel, fiberglass, or other equivalent material; 
(ii) Water tight and capable of containing the chemical waste in a sanitary manner; and 
(iii) Sufficient in size for the number of persons that will be using the toilet and consistent with the manufacturer's recommended use requirements. At a minimum, the portable chemical toilet must be of sufficient size that the container will normally be at no more than half of its volume capacity immediately before each regularly scheduled emptying of the waste. 
(B) Portable chemical toilets must: 
(i) Be supplied with toilet paper; 
(ii) Have doors that can be unlocked from the outside with an opening device readily accessible to staff, if equipped with doors;  
(iii) Prevent children from accessing teh chemicals or waste; 
(iv) Provide privacy for school-age children, such as being screened, equipped with doors, or having children take turns while supervision is maintained; and 
(v) Be serviced on a regular schedule.  Portable chemical toilet service and maintenance must be performed in accordance with city, county, and state laws by approved servicing organizations. 
(c) The use of toileting facilities on public lands, such as at a public park or nature center.  Public toileting facilities must: 
(A) Be supplied with toilet paper; 
(B) Have doors that can be unlocked from the outside with an opening device readily accessible to staff, if equipped with doors; and 
(C) Provide privacy for school-age children, such as being screened, equipped with doors, or having children take turns while supervision is maintained. 
(d) A portable toilet, with individual liners that allow for sanitary disposal after each use, and with surfaces cleaned at least once each day and more often if needed, pursuant to OAR 414-320-0850.  Portable toilets must:  
(A) Be supplied with toilet paper; and  
(B) Provide privacy for school-age children, such as being screened, equipped with doors or other method of ensuring privacy, or having children take turns while supervision is maintained.  
(e) A water conserving toilet, such as a composting or pit toilet, and greywater system that meets the requirements for health and sanitation as required by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality and the environmental health specialist. Water conserving toilets must:  
(A) Be supplied with toilet paper; 
(B) Have doors that can be unlocked from the outside with an opening device readily accessible to staff, if equipped with doors; and  
(C) Provide privacy for school-age children, such as being screened, equipped with doors, or having children take turns while supervision is maintained. 
(3) A certified ONB program may only utilize backcountry toileting: 
(a) When away from the outdoor classroom, and there are no other toileting options available; 
(b) With permission from the landowner; and 
(c) When in compliance with the following "Leave No Trace" principles: 
(A) Include that solid human waste is deposited and buried in catholes dug 6-8 inches deep at least 200 feet from water, water sources, campsites, and trails.  Toilet paper must be either buried in the cathole or packed out with other hygiene products and disposed of properly.   
(B) Occurs more than 200 feet from areas where children play or eat; and 
(C) Includes handwashing with certified ONB program staff using gloves to assist children and to ensure the sanitary disposal of toilet paper.  Both children and adults must wash their hands pursuant to OAR 414-320-1000, Handwashing.  
(4) For all toileting options described in this section: 
(a) To ensure successful toileting and handwashing practices, a certified ONB program must ensure children have independent access to sufficient toilets, urinals, toilet paper, handwashing equipment, and staff support; 
(b) Certified ONB programs must provide an ONB toileting policy to staff and parents, pursuant to OAR 414-320-0200, Policies; and 
(c) Certified ONB program staff must be trained in the proper use of alternative toileting options, and the certified ONB program's policies and procedures for supporting children, pursuant to OAR 414-320-0370, Orientation and Initial Training. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
