



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 95 Resource Adequacy 
 860-095-0030 
 Electricity Service Supplier Resource Adequacy Informational Filing Requirements 
 
 (1) Electricity Service Suppliers must submit an Informational Filing with the Commission every other year. 

 (a) The Informational Filing may be filed as a part of the Emissions Planning Report filing. 

 (b) The Informational Filing must contain a discussion about how the overall resource strategy interacts with Resource Adequacy concerns. 

 (2) The Informational Filing for an Electricity Service Supplier must include: 

 (a) A monthly P50 Peak Load Forecast and Effective Load Carrying Capability curve over a period of the greater of four years or the longest available timeline from a Qualified Regional Program using methods consistent with outputs of the Qualified Regional Program’s Advisory Forecast. 

 (b) A discussion covering at least four years of the transmission rights necessary to serve P50 load, the transmission rights currently owned or used, the steps that will be taken to procure transmission rights to fill in any open position, and any expected constraints or difficulties in filling any open positions. 

 (3) All publicly available outputs of a Qualified Regional Program’s most recent Advisory Forecast must be included with the Informational Filing. These may be included as an appendix chapter. 

 (4) Availability of Information: 

 (a) A Regional Participant's most recent Regional Forward Shwoing submission to its Qualified Regional Program must be made available for review only to Qualified Parties and only upon request pursuant to a Modified Protective Order. 

 (b) The following information shall be available for review only by Non-market Participants that have executed a Modified Protective Order: 

 (A) A discussion about how the overall resource strategy interacts with Resource Adequacy concerns, as requirebed by section (1)(b)of this rule;  

 (B) A monthly P50 Peak Load Forecast and Effective Load Carrying Capability curve, as required by section (2)(a) of this rule; and 

 (C) A discussion covering at least four years of the transmission rights necessary to serve P50 load, the transmission rights currently owned or used, the steps that will be taken to procure transmission rights to fill in any open position, and any expected constraints or difficulties in filling any open positions, as required by section (2)(b) of this rule.  

 (c) For purposes of this rule, Non-market Participants includes Commission Staff, the Oregon Citizens' Utility Board, and nonprofit organizations engaged in environmental advocacy that do not otherwise participate in electricity markets. 

 (5) As part of the forecast of monthly P50 Peak Load Forecast and monthly forecast of transmission requirements, an Electricity Service Supplier must use current load levels or provide reasonable substitutes of the load forecast. An Electricity Service Supplier is responsible for demonstrating that the substitute load forecast is reasonable. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183 & ORS 756 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040, ORS 757.649 & ORS 757.659 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 5-2024, adopt filed 05/10/2024, effective 05/13/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
