



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
   Temporary rule language in effect until 10/19/2026. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 149 GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO PUBLIC CONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION SERVICES 
 736-149-0450 
 Protest of Formal Contract Awards 
 
 (1) Award Protest Opportunity: Any offeror who submitted an offer in response to a formal procurement may protest the award by submitting a protest to the department within five days following the date of the award notice, unless a different time period is specified in the solicitation document. 

 (2) Award Protest Content: All award protests must be received in writing and signed either in writing or electronic form by the offeror’s authorized representative. The award protest must be received by the department by the time set forth in subsection (1) above, and provide relevant legal and factual arguments that: 

 (a) All lower bids or higher ranked offerors are ineligible to receive the award because they are not responsive; or 

 (b) The department committed a material violation of a provision in the solicitation document or of an applicable statute or administrative rule that resulted in prejudice to the offeror that caused the department to not issue an award to that offeror. 

 (3) Department’s Response: The designated procurement officer or designee will review each timely-submitted award protest and will issue a written response to the offeror within three business days following receipt of the protest. 

 (a) Response Content: The department’s written response may include the department's decision affirming or denying the award protest, a notice to the offeror the department needs additional time to evaluate the protest, or a request for additional information from the offeror the department may need to evaluate the protest. 

 (b) Follow-up Response: The department will issue a follow-up response to the offeror within a reasonable time following the department's notice to the offeror that the department needs additional time to evaluate the award protest or following receipt of the additional information the department has requested from the offeror. 

 (4) Late Protests: The department will not consider an offeror’s protest submitted after the timelines specified for submission in this rule. 

 (5) Successful Protest: If the department sustains any or all of a protest, the department may, in its sole discretion, withdraw the award and issue a subsequent award, or withdraw the award and cancel the offeror selection process. The department may, at any time after cancellation of the offeror selection process or award withdrawal, conduct a new offeror selection process, including issuing a new Invitation to Bid with the same or revised terms, conditions and specifications as used in the original solicitation document. 

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279.025(3)(k) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279.025(3)(k) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 2-2026, temporary adopt filed 04/23/2026, effective 04/24/2026 through 10/19/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
