



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Chapter 731 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 65 SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 
 731-065-0060 
 Misconduct Disqualification 
 
 (1) The Department may disqualify a Business and terminate SBDP participation due to misconduct. 

 (2) Reasons for Misconduct Disqualification include, but are not limited to: 

 (a) The Applicant knowingly made a false claim, or misrepresented existing certification status, during the qualifying process. 

 (b) The Business entered into an agreement with another organization to leverage Business qualification in the program. 

 (c) If a Business does not meet eligibility criteria and attempts to participate in the SBDP as a qualified small business on the basis of false, fraudulent, or deceitful statements or representations indicating a serious lack of business integrity or honesty, the Department may terminate program participation. 

 (3) If the Department determines that a Business should be disqualified for misconduct and have its participation terminated, the Department will issue a Notice of Intent to Disqualify for Misconduct and Terminate Participation, by Certified Mail, which will include: 

 (a) The effective date of program disqualification; 

 (b) An explanation supporting the reasons for disqualification; and 

 (c) A statement of the Business's ability to request Administrative Reconsideration and applicable deadlines. 

 (4) The Business has 20 calendar days from the date of the Notice of Intent in which to request Administrative Reconsideration. If the Department does not receive a request for request Administrative Reconsideration within 20 calendar days, the Notice of Intent to Revoke Participation Due to Misconduct and Terminate Participation will become the Department’s final determination of eligibility. 

 (5) A Business subject to the Department’s final determination of Misconduct Disqualification is not eligible to qualify for future program participation. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.619 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 184.906 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 7-2024, adopt filed 12/04/2024, effective 12/04/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
