



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-0650 
 Diaper Changing 
 
 (1) A certified ONB program must change wet or soiled diapers promptly, checking children’s diapers at a minimum of every 2 hours, or more frequently to meet the individual child’s needs.  
(2) A certified ONB program must have a designated diaper changing area, including stand-up diapering, for children who require diapering.  
(a) The diaper changing area must be located so that handwashing can occur immediately after diapering without contact with other surfaces or other children. 
(b) The diaper changing area must be located away and separate from all food preparation, food service, and food storage areas.   
(c) The diaper changing surface must be sturdy, smooth, non-absorbent, easily cleanable and free of tears or repairs. 
(d) The diaper changing surface must be kept free of all objects except for diapering items and not used for other purposes. 
(e) If the changing surface is on an elevated surface:  
(A) The surface must be large enough to accommodate the length of a child, with protective edges or barriers that prevent a child from rolling or falling from the surface. 
(B) A safety strap or harness must not be used on the elevated diaper changing surface. 
(C) Children must never be left unattended on an elevated changing surface. 
(f) A disinfecting solution must be kept in each diaper-changing area ready for immediate use and stored in a manner so that it is inaccessible to children. 
(3) A certified ONB program must follow the diaper-changing procedure, including stand-up diapering, that has been approved by the environmental health specialist.  
(4) A certified ONB program must prevent the viewing of a partially or fully undressed child during diaper changes by members of the public. For the purpose of this subsection, "members of the public" means anyone not affiliated with the certified ONB program.  
(5) A certified ONB program must discuss the toilet learning plan and progress with parents and ensure that the plan is relaxed and pressure free.  
(6) A certified ONB program must place wet or soiled clothing or personal items in a sealed, labeled, moisture-proof bag to send home with the child.  
(7) If a certified ONB program uses cloth or reusable diapers, the soiled diapers must:  
(a) Not be rinsed;  
(b) Be placed in a securely sealed, moisture-proof bag;  
(c) Be stored in a separate disposal container; and  
(d) Be cleaned by a commercial laundry service or given daily to the child’s parent or guardian.  
(8) A certified ONB program must provide a container designated for disposing of soiled diapers and diapering supplies only. The diaper disposal container must be:  
(a) Approved by the environmental health specialist;  
(b) Lined with a disposable plastic trash bag;  
(c) Within arm’s reach of the diaper changing area; and  
(d) Emptied, cleaned and disinfected daily or more often as needed. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
