



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 DISTRIBUTION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE FUNDS TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATELY OWNED LAND MANAGERS, ATV CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
 736-004-0150 
 Safety Equipment Standards for Off-Road Vehicles 
 
 (1) The State Parks and Recreation Commission adopts the following equipment requirements for off-road vehicles that operate in areas as described in ORS 821.020. 

 (2) Safety equipment standards for off-road vehicles subject to this rule are: 

 (a) Brakes. All vehicles must have disc or drum brakes that are operable and effective in bringing the vehicle to a stop; 

 (b) Chain Guard. Any vehicle equipped with a chain must have a guard so designed that in the event of failure, the chain will remain under the vehicle; 

 (c) Fire Extinguisher. Class II and IV all-terrain vehicles must be equipped with a functional dry chemical type fire extinguisher of at least two pounds capacity that is approved by the Underwriters Laboratories or other acceptable testing agency; 

 (d) Flag. All vehicles must display a flag with at least 36 square inches on each side of highly visible red or orange when operating on the sand. The flag must: 

 (A) Be displayed at a height of at least eight feet from the ground level when the vehicle is under power; and 

 (B) Have one side that is at least six inches wide, and be at least twelve inches long; 

 (e) Floor Pan/Foot Pads. All vehicles must have floor pans, with the exception of Class I and III all-terrain vehicles that must have foot pads or the equivalent, so designed and mounted as to keep the driver's and any passenger's feet within the frame of or from underneath the vehicle; 

 (f) Fuel Tank. All fuel tanks must be: 

 (A) Securely mounted; 

 (B) Properly constructed of metal, plastic, or other industry safety approved material; 

 (C) Properly constructed for the carrying of fuel; and 

 (D) All connections must be kept secure and tight. 

 (g) Muffler. All vehicles must be equipped with a muffler that conforms to the current noise level and defect standards of OPRD for vehicles operated off-road; 

 (h) Roll Bar. Class II and IV all-terrain vehicles, except vehicles which has a seat designed to be straddled for the operator must be equipped with a roll bar or other enclosure that will support the vehicle's weight and be so designed as to protect the occupants' head(s) when the vehicle is resting on this roll bar or enclosure; 

 (i) Seats. All vehicles must be equipped with a securely mounted seat for the driver and each passenger; 

 (j) Seat Belts. Class II and IV all-terrain vehicles, except vehicles which has a seat designed to be straddled for the operator must be equipped with securely mounted seat belts of the quick-release type, readily available for use for the driver and each passenger; 

 (k) Windshield. When the vehicle, except a motorcycle, is operated: 

 (A) On a highway and the vehicle is equipped with a windshield, the top edge of which is at least six inches above the steering wheel, the vehicle must be equipped with an effective working windshield wiper. 

 (B) Off the highway and the vehicle is equipped with a windshield, the windshield must be unobstructed. 

 (l) Headlights and Taillights. At any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour after sunrise, all vehicles shall be equipped with and display headlights and taillights. When operating in the snow, all off road vehicles shall have a lighted headlight and taillight. 

 (m) A person operating a snowmobile equipped by the manufacturer with a lanyard type engine cutoff switch must attach such lanyard to their person or clothing. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390.180, ORS 390.585 & ORS 821.030 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 821.030 & ORS 821.220 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 8-2025, adopt filed 09/22/2025, effective 09/22/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 4-2025, temporary adopt filed 04/25/2025, effective 04/25/2025 through 10/21/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
