



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Nursing 
 Chapter 851 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 31 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS FOR NURSES 
 851-031-0075 
 Limited Licenses for Internationally Educated and Licensed Nurses (IELN) 
 
 (1) Refer to OAR 851-031-0026 for license requirements for IELN attending a graduate program requiring a clinical practicum component. 
(2) IELN attending a research PhD program are not required to obtain a full or limited license when no direct care is provided and patient interaction is restricted to investigation protocol data collection and the student is under the supervision and 
nursing license of the Principle Investigator. Non-nurse Principle Investigators are not authorized to supervise IELN PhD students. 
(3) A limited license is not required for an observation only experience. The sponsor, faculty, or preceptor will be accountable if the IELN observer is allowed to provide any type of patient care intervention. This constitutes practicing without a license. 
(4) A limited license is required for those IELN who are attending a continuing education program or clinical experience as part of an exchange program or a program offering a precepted experience in nursing practice. The IELN works under the supervision of the faculty or sponsor; the preceptor is accountable for removing the IELN from the clinical experience if the preceptor deems the IELN is providing unsafe patient care. The IELN has a limited license and is accountable for their practice; however, the sponsor will be held accountable for allowing an IELN who has been reported to be unsafe to continue to participate in the clinical experience. 
(5) The IELN must have a faculty or sponsor who has an unencumbered Oregon RN license who will take accountability for the experience of the IELN and assure that the clinical experience is commensurate with the IELN current scope of practice and that specific learning objectives are formulated. 
(6) Requirements for a limited license under this section: 
(a) A completed application per Board processes including the name of the program and accountable Oregon licensed sponsor, faculty, or preceptor. 
(b) Primary source verification that the nurse is in good standing with their country’s nursing licensure authority. 
(c) The limited license is valid for one year or when the program is completed, whichever is least. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 678.050 & ORS 678.150 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 678.050 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BN 6-2021, adopt filed 06/21/2021, effective 07/01/2021 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
