



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 56 OREGON MAIN STREET 
 736-056-0014 
 Oregon Main Street Network Structure 
 
 The department has a tier system of participation to serve a broad range of organizations depending on their capacity and interest in implementing a comprehensive downtown improvement program and includes the process for designating organizations and participation requirements. 

 (1) A designated local community must have the following base level requirements: 

 (a) A map of the designated downtown or commercial area approved by Oregon Main Street; 

 (b) Two primary contact people provided to Oregon Main Street; 

 (c) An annual participation agreement with Oregon Main Street that specifies participation requirements and benefits; 

 (d) A representative that participates in trainings offered by Oregon Main Street; 

 (e) A commitment to historic preservation; 

 (f) Compliance with nonprofit, labor, and all applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations; and 

 (g) Compliance with any other criteria contained in the Oregon Main Street handbook, application, or participation agreement. 

 (2) Additional requirements for Affiliated Main Street, Designated Main Street, Accredited Main Street, and Rural Regional Main Street tiers. 

 (a) Affiliated Main Street level organizations must meet the base level requirements in section (1) and: 

 (A) Have part-time staff; 

 (B) Commit to forming an independent nonprofit organization or another organizational form if approved by the department; 

 (C) Have a sustainable funding plan; 

 (D) Submit quarterly reports; 

 (E) Commit to on-going implementation of a main street structure; and 

 (F) Any other requirements that the department may establish. 

 (b) A Designated Main Street level organizations, must meet the baseline requirements in section (1) and: 

 (A) Have a full-time executive or managerial position or part-time for communities under 5,000 in population; 

 (B) Have an independent nonprofit organization unless another form is approved by the department; 

 (C) Sign an annual sublicense agreement with Main Street America; 

 (D) Submit quarterly reports; 

 (E) Have comprehensive workplan based on the main street structure; 

 (F) An active board of directors; and 

 (G) Any other requirements that the department may establish. 

 (c) To maintain status as an Oregon Main Street Accredited organization, an Accredited Main Street level organizations must: 

 (A) Meet all the baseline requirements in section (1) and requirements provided for Designated Main Street in section (2)(a); and 

 (B) Complete Main Street America’s National Accreditation self-assessment and meet national criteria at least once every two years. 

 (d) Rural Regional Main Street hub organizations must meet all the baseline requirements in section (1) and requirements provided for Designated Main Street in section (2)(b). 

 (3) Process for designating organizations. 

 (a) Connected Community tier. 

 (A) Application and submission: 

 (i) Oregon Main Street accepts applications year-round. 

 (ii) Applicants submit an application form on the departments website. 

 (iii) Submit a map with a clear boundary of the proposed historic downtown or neighborhood commercial district. 

 (B) Designation. 

 (i) The application form and map will be reviewed by the department to determine whether the applicant meets base level requirements provided in section (1). 

 (ii) All submissions that meet the base level requirements in section (1) will be added to the Oregon Main Street Network at the Connected Community tier. 

 (b) Affiliated and Designated Main Street tiers. 

 (A) Application and submission: 

 (i) Oregon Main Street accepts applications once per year. 

 (ii) The applications are available on the departments website. 

 (iii) Submit a map with a clear boundary of the proposed historic downtown or neighborhood commercial district. 

 (B) Designation 

 (i) The department will conduct an initial review for completeness. 

 (ii) A committee comprised of the Oregon Main Street coordinator, representatives from local main street organizations, state agency partners, or other downtown professionals will review complete applications and make recommendations for readiness to participate in the Oregon Main Street Network at one of the tiers in subsection (c)(d). 

 (iii) The department will consider the committee recommendations in making final determinations for accepting communities in the Main Street Track and level. 

 (c) Accredited Main Street tier 

 (A) This tier can only be achieved by first joining the Oregon Main Street Network at the Designated tier level. 

 (i) The organization must meet Main Street America’s National Accreditation criteria after completion of an online self-assessment form through Main Street America’s process. 

 (ii) The department and Main Street America will review the online self-assessment form for completeness. 

 (B) After a Designated Main Street level organization achieves Main Street America annual accreditation recognition, the organization will automatically move to the Accredited Main Street tier of the OMS Network. 

 (d) Rural Regional Main Street 

 (A) Application 

 (i) Applications are required for both the hub organization and communities participating under the hub. 

 (ii) Hub organization applications are accepted by invitation to participate at this level after conversation with likely partners in a region. Hub organizations must have at least three participating rural communities in their region to be considered a hub. 

 (B) Designation 

 (i) The department will review the application and determine readiness to serve as a Rural Regional Main Street hub. 

 (ii) The department will approve communities participating in the hub. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390.124(1) & 390.262(9) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 390.262 & 390.264 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 6-2024, adopt filed 09/23/2024, effective 09/23/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
