



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 900 EARLY LEARNING HUBS 
 414-900-0011 
 Early Learning Hub Director Role 
 
 Each Hub must have a designated Hub Director(s) who focuses on centering equity and addressing the needs of the region’s identified priority population(s). The Hub Director(s) is the conduit, connector, and systems capacity builder of the Early Learning Hub. The Hub Director(s) leads strategies, communication and alignment in coordination with the Governance Council. 

 (1) In partnership with the Governance Council, the Early Learning Hub Director must administer the functions of the Hub as outlined in Oregon Administrative Rule 414-900-0015 and the Grant Agreement. The Hub Director(s) must: 

 (a) Work in close partnership with the backbone entity or Hub providing its own operational and fiscal support to ensure the financial transparency and accountability of the Hub’s operations per the Grant Agreement; and 

 (b) Maintain a clear and comprehensive understanding of how the Department provided funds are allocated and spent, as outlined in the Grant Agreement. 

 (2) Hub Director(s) implement and lead, all aspects of the Hub’s strategic initiatives and community engagement efforts. The Hub Director’s(s’) role must include: 

 (a) Engaging with the backbone entity or Hub providing its own operational and fiscal support to facilitate operations and fiscal support for the Hub; 

 (b) Developing a budget for the Hub and managing fiscal responsibilities; 

 (c) Communicating priorities on behalf of the Governance Council; 

 (d) Serving as a liaison to the Department, which includes but is not limited to: 

 (A) Engaging in meetings convened by the Department; 

 (B) Attending technical assistance/peer learning opportunities as convened by the Department; 

 (C) Staying apprised of Department policies, initiatives, updates and equity goals; and 

 (D) Ensuring the Governance Council is up to date on Department policies. 

 (e) Leading regional alignment and coordination of early learning systems as follows: 

 (A) Identifying the region’s priority population(s). 

 (B) Creating a shared vision for the regional early childhood system. 

 (C) Engaging cross-sector and community partners. 

 (D) Engaging in system-focused problem-solving and action. 

 (E) Engaging in continuous learning and improvement of regional early childhood system plans. 

 (F) Facilitating strategic convening of sector and community partners. 

 (G) Leading collaborative execution of Department deliverables as outlined in the Grant Agreement and providing regular updates to Governance Council and backbone entity or Hub providing its own operational and fiscal support. 

 (f) Ensuring alignment with Oregon’s statewide early childhood system plan and other state priorities; and 

 (g) Monitoring the effectiveness and equity of Hub operations. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 417.728 & ORS 417.827 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 417.728 & ORS 417.827 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 6-2025, adopt filed 06/25/2025, effective 10/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
