



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Examiners for Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology 
 Chapter 335 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 70 PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 335-070-0020 
 Professional Development Defined
 
 
 (1) “Professional development” is defined as the successful completion of accepted types of activities, on accepted topics, provided and verified by accepted sponsors or providers, for the purpose of developing and updating professional skills. 

 (2) “Accepted types of activities” are organized programs of learning such as academic courses, classes, conferences, programs, and workshops, that are presented electronically, in-person, or in other formats. Self-study courses accompanied by examination and sponsored by a Board-recognized professional organization in audiology or speech-language pathology are also accepted types of activities. Publishing articles in peer-reviewed professional journals is an accepted type of activity only if special approval is obtained through procedures outlined in OAR 335-070-0020. 

 (3) Activities not accepted as professional development include but are not limited to: 

 (a) Supervision of practicum students or clinical fellows, making presentations, or teaching classes; 

 (b) Serving on professional boards or committees; 

 (c) Attending professional association business or committee meetings (whether paid or as a volunteer); 

 (d) Attending staff meetings; 

 (e) Performing other volunteer work; and 

 (f) Reading or studying professional journals or watching video recorded material, unless part of a self-study program that includes an examination to document satisfactory completion, and is sponsored by a Board-recognized professional association in audiology or speech-language pathology. 

 (4) The content of professional development activities must directly relate to the performance and practice of speech-language pathology or audiology and focus on accepted topics. “Accepted topics” are the following: 

 (a) Assessment and intervention for speech-language and hearing disorders; 

 (b) Speech, language and hearing science; 

 (c) Service delivery issues associated with speech-language and hearing services; 

 (d) Issues in pre-professional and professional training, professional ethics, professional regulation, and professional leadership and management; 

 (e) Planning, conducting and interpreting research activities, and developing and implementing evidence-based practices; 

 (f) Cultural and linguistic diversity in education, training, service delivery, and public policy associated with speech, language, and hearing, including the study of foreign language when needed for direct clinical practice; 

 (g) Business practices, regulatory policy, and marketing issues directly related to clinical service delivery; 

 (h) Psycho-social issues associated with speech/language/hearing assessment and intervention; 

 (i) Patient safety, clinical documentation and prevention of medical errors; 

 (j) Other topics included in the Continuing Education Board Registry subject code list published by ASHA in 2008 and as revised; 

 (k) Educational strategies and professional knowledge necessary to effectively provide speech-language pathology or audiology services to students within a pre-K to high school setting. 

 (5) “Accepted sponsors or providers” of professional development are: 

 (a) The American Speech-Language Hearing Association (ASHA), the American Academy of Audiology (AAA), or the American Board of Audiology (ABA) for programs that they provide or approve for audiologists, speech-language pathologists, or speech-language pathology assistants; 

 (b) The Oregon Speech-Language Hearing Association (OSHA), the Oregon Academy of Audiology (OAA), or any other state speech-language-hearing organizations recognized by ASHA, AAA, or ABA; 

 (c) Continuing education providers approved by ASHA, AAA, or ABA; 

 (d) The Oregon Health Licensing Agency for programs that it provides to hearing aid specialists, or approves for continuing education for its licensed hearing aid specialists, or the Oregon Board of Examiners for Speech-Language Pathology & Audiology for programs it provides to its licensees. 

 (e) Institutions of higher education accredited by an appropriate national, state or regional body or approved by the Board, for academic courses; 

 (f) The American Red Cross or American Heart Association or equivalent providers for courses on cardio-pulmonary resuscitation or basic life support; and 

 (g) Public school districts, education service districts, home health care companies, skilled nursing facilities, hospitals, or universities. 

 (h) Providers of professional development that are not specified in OAR 335-070-0010(5)(a)–(g) will be accepted sponsors only if special approval is obtained through procedures outlined in 335-070-0020. 

 (6) Professional development credit will be granted by the Board as follows: 

 (a) Credit will be granted by the Board for professional development that meets the definitions for accepted types of activities, accepted topics, and accepted sponsors or providers in OAR 335-070-0010, including those that receive special approval from the Board per 335-070-0020. 

 (b) Credit for professional development will be calculated on an hourly basis. One “professional development hour” is defined as sixty (60) minutes or one (1) clock hour of attendance/participation unless otherwise specified in rule or specially approved by the Board. 

 (c) Academic course work must be taken for credit, and the licensee must receive a minimum grade of "C", for professional development credit to be granted. One academic semester hour is equivalent to fifteen (15) professional development hours. One academic quarter hour is equivalent to ten (10) professional development hours. 

 (d) Licensees must complete the required professional development hours within the professional development period. The “professional development period” is the twenty-four months prior to and including December 31st of each odd-numbered year. 

 (e) Professional development hours completed in excess of the requirement may not be carried over to meet requirements in the subsequent period. Professional development hours completed late for one period may not be counted towards the requirements for the subsequent period. 

 (f) Credit will not be given for completing a professional development activity more than once in a professional development period. A conference consisting of many separate workshops on different topics is counted as multiple activities. 

 (g) Credit will only be granted by the Board for professional development activities that are documented by official transcripts or certificates of attendance issued by the sponsor or provider. Documentation of activities specially approved by the Board must include proof of that approval, and may require other forms of evidence of completion. All professional development documentation must be retained by the licensee for four (4) years after its completion. 

 (h) An approved published article in a peer-reviewed professional journal may be awarded up to 10 professional development hours. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 681.420(5) & 681.460 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 681.320(1)(a) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPA 3-2020, amend filed 12/02/2020, effective 12/02/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPA 5-2013, f. & cert. ef. 11-13-13 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPA 2-2013(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 5-17-13 thru 11-13-13 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPA 1-2013, f. 4-1-13, cert. ef. 5-1-13 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPA 1-2011, f. 1-28-11, cert. ef. 2-1-11 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPA 1-2007, f. & cert. ef. 2-1-07 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPA 4-2006, f. & cert. ef. 11-3-06 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPA 1-2003, f. & cert. ef. 5-7-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPA 1-2001, f. & cert. ef. 3-12-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPA 2-1996, f. & cert. ef. 7-22-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
