



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 536 IN-HOME CARE AGENCIES 
 333-536-0052 
 Administrator 
 
 (1) As used in this rule, "qualified" means possessing a high school diploma and having at least two years of professional or management experience in a health-related field or program. 

 (2) An agency owner shall be qualified or employ a qualified administrator. 

 (3) The administrator may assign, in writing, a designee to act as the administrator when the administrator is temporarily unavailable. The designee must satisfy all of the qualifications of an administrator described in this rule. 

 (4) An administrator may delegate specified administrative tasks to a delegate that the Authority has identified in rule as delegable to a delegate. Administrator obligations and duties that are not specifically identified in rule as permissible for a delegate to undertake may not be delegated. A delegate is not required to satisfy all of the qualifications for an administrator described in this rule. 

 (5) An administrator or administrator's designee shall be accessible and available during all hours in which services are being provided to clients. 

 (6) An administrator or administrator's designee shall be responsible for: 

 (a) Organizing and directing the agency's ongoing functions at the agency, including on premises supervision and direct observation, and shall be on-site at the agency multiple days per week; 

 (b) Ensuring the completeness and accuracy of all information provided to the public regarding the agency and its services; 

 (c) Ensuring the provision of safe and appropriate services in accordance with written service plans; 

 (d) Ensuring that all individuals providing services for the agency meet the qualification, orientation, competency, training, and education requirements in the rules; 

 (e) Ensuring that personnel and client care practices are consistent with the agency's written policies and procedures. 

 (f) Ensuring that client care assignments are based on the caregiver's abilities, skills, and competence; 

 (g) Ensuring that the agency does not accept or retain clients for whom it does not have the capabilities or resources to provide services; 

 (h) Ensuring the timely internal investigation of any complaint, grievance, adverse event, provision of personal care, medication or treatment error, and allegation of abuse or neglect. An agency shall maintain in its records documentation of the complaint or event, results of the investigation including who was interviewed and the information that was provided, and the actions taken, including ongoing monitoring, if applicable. Documentation must be maintained in a separate file from the client or caregiver records; 

 (i) Ensuring the timely reporting of any allegation of abuse or neglect to the appropriate authority that includes but is not limited to the ODHS, Authority, or local law enforcement agency; and 

 (j) Ensuring caregivers report any decline or change in a client’s health, behavior or environment to the administrator, administrator's designee or administrator's delegate to receive such information. Reporting must be documented in the client record and incorporated into the client service plan. Documentation must include an evaluation of the client’s condition as stable and predictable. 

 (7) An administrator shall require: 

 (a) Employees that have direct contact with clients to report any new arrests, charges, or convictions after hire to determine if any personnel action is necessary, including but not limited to a new criminal records check, to ensure compliance with ORS 443.004; and 

 (b) Caregivers who have proof of a current Oregon health-care related license or certificate to report any licensing board action to the agency that would prevent the caregiver from providing services to the agency. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 443.340 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 443.340 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 26-2021, adopt filed 06/29/2021, effective 07/01/2021 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
