



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 257 OREGON LOW EMISSION VEHICLES 
 340-257-0095 
 ZEV Allowances for Environmental Justice Values 
 
 (1) Community-Based Clean Mobility Programs 

 (a) DEQ must determine that a program qualifies as a community-based clean mobility program under this rule before a manufacturer may earn vehicle values under CCR, Title 13, section 1962.4(e)(2)(A)1. 

 (b) A manufacturer may request DEQ to make a determination that a program qualifies as a community-based clean mobility program. When making this request, the manufacturer shall provide: 

 (A) Attestation that the program meets each element of the definition of community-based clean mobility program; 

 (B) Contact information for the program, including program name, program implementer name (if different), mailing address including a street address, city, state, and zip code, federal tax identification number (if any), contact person name, contact person phone number, and contact person email address; 

 (C) A description of the program, including program objectives, total number of vehicles, and the program service location or area; 

 (D) A written communication from a responsible official (e.g., executive, principal officer) of the entity that administers the program, which shall include the following: 

 (i) Certification that the vehicles will be put into service exclusively for the purposes of operating a community-based clean mobility program with a minimum of four years of service operation; 

 (ii) Certification that vehicle titles or lease agreements will be held by an organizational entity, not by individual drivers; and 

 (iii) Certification that the program meets the definition of community-based clean mobility program. 

 (c) In response to a request under section (1)(b): 

 (A) DEQ may determine that a program qualifies as a community-based clean mobility program if the manufacturer has demonstrated that the program meets the requirements described in section (2) and is a community-based clean mobility program; and 

 (B) DEQ will notify the manufacturer of the determination in writing within 60 days. If the program is determined to qualify as a community-based clean mobility program, DEQ will issue an order designating the community-based clean mobility program. 

 (d) Renewal. A DEQ order issued under section (3) approving a community-based clean mobility program shall remain valid for four years. A manufacturer may request a renewal of a determination of a community-based clean mobility program by providing the information and materials specified under section (2). DEQ will review and approve or deny a renewal request by the process specified in section (3). 

 (e) Revocation. DEQ may revoke an order issued under this section (3) if DEQ determines that: 

 (A) The community-based clean mobility program no longer satisfies the definition of a community-based clean mobility program or the requirements in section (2); or 

 (B) The community-based clean mobility program has resold or returned, prior to four years of service, one or more vehicles that a manufacturer provided for use of the program for which the manufacturer has earned Environmental Justice Vehicle Values pursuant to CCR, Title 13, subsection 1962.4(e)(2)(A)1, except for resale to another qualifying community-based clean mobility program. 

 (2) Vehicles Sold at the End of Lease to Participating Dealerships 

 (a) DEQ must determine that an Oregon dealership participates in a financial assistance program before a manufacturer may earn vehicle values under CCR, Title 13, section 1962.4(e)(2)(B)1. 

 (b) Qualifying vehicles eligible for the vehicle value are specified under CCR, Title 13, section 1962.4(e)(2)(B)2. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020, 468A.025 & 468A.360 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468.020 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 23-2022, adopt filed 12/19/2022, effective 12/19/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
