



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Real Estate Agency 
 Chapter 863 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY WHOLESALING REGULATION 
 863-017-0015 
 Background Check Application and Fingerprint 
 
 (1) An applicant for a Residential property wholesaler registration must submit to a background check, except an applicant who is currently licensed as a real estate broker, principal real estate broker, or real estate property manager. 
(2) The background check includes a criminal background check as provided in OAR chapter 863, division 005, which requires the applicant to provide fingerprints. 
(3) The Agency and a vendor for fingerprinting services (“fingerprint service provider”) have contractually agreed that: 
(a) The fingerprint service provider will provide fingerprint services to registration applicants and submit the fingerprints to the Oregon State Police for Oregon and nationwide criminal history checks. 
(b) A registration applicant may only submit fingerprints required by the Agency through the fingerprint services provider. 
(c) A registration applicant must pay the fee for fingerprinting, directly to the fingerprint services provider. 
(d) A registration applicant must provide fingerprints according to the requirements and instructions of the fingerprint services provider. 
(e) A registration applicant must have submitted a registration application to the Agency before providing fingerprints. 
(4) As provided in ORS 181A.225, all fingerprint cards, photographs, records, reports, and criminal offender information obtained or compiled by the Agency are confidential and exempt from public inspection. The Commissioner will keep such information segregated from other information on the applicant or registrant and maintain such information in a secure place. 
(5) If the Agency determines that additional information is necessary to conduct a background check, the Agency may request such information in writing, and the applicant must provide the requested information. If the applicant fails to provide the requested information, the Agency may determine that the registration application is incomplete and terminate the application. 

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Oregon Laws 2024, chapter 3, section 3 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Oregon Laws 2024, chapter 3, section 3 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REA 4-2024, adopt filed 12/12/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
