



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 210 REGISTERED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-210-0310 
 Central Background Registry Enrollment 
 
 (1)     The provider must be enrolled in CCLD’s CBR prior to the issuance of a registration. All other caregivers, and residents of the child care home 18 years of age or older must be enrolled or conditionally enrolled in CCLD’s CBR prior to the issuance of an initial or renewal of a registration. 
(2)     Residents of the child care home who are under 18 years of age must be enrolled or conditionally enrolled in the CBR by their 18th birthday. 
(3)    A provider must receive confirmation from CCLD that an individual 18 years of age or over, is enrolled or conditionally enrolled in the CBR before the individual can: 
(a)    Reside in the child care home; 
(b)    Stay overnight on the premises for longer than 14 consecutive days, not to exceed a total of 30 days in a calendar year, unless not required to enroll in the CBR as provided in subsection (4) of this rule; 
(c)    Work in the child care home; or 
(d)    Volunteer in the child care home. 
(4)    Individuals 18 years of age and older that reside on the premises in living spaces other than the child care home (including, but not limited to, Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) or other Alternative Housing units, tiny homes, recreational vehicles (RVs), trailers, garage apartments, etc.) are not required to enroll in the CBR if all of the following conditions are met:  
(a)     Those residing in or visiting the living space are not known by the provider to be suspended or to have  been denied or removed for cause from the CBR; 
(b)    The living space can be accessed without entering the child care home;  
(c)    Those residing in or visiting the living space have no opportunity for access to child care children without the permission of the provider and presence of a caregiver employed in the child care home. For the purposes of this rule, an individual has opportunity for access to child care children if they are able to be close enough to touch or have a conversation with a child care child inside or outside the home.   
(d)    Child care is never conducted in the living space and child care children do not have access to the living space; and  
(e)    The living space offers basic necessities such as running water, a bathroom, and cooking appliances, without having to enter the child care home during operating hours or when child care children are present.   
(5)    The provider, caregivers, and other individuals that are required to be enrolled in the CBR must maintain current enrollment in the CBR at all times while the registered family child care license is active. 
(6)    Individuals with conditional enrollment in the CBR shall not have unsupervised access to children. 
(7)    Any visitor to the child care home or other adult who is not enrolled in the CBR shall not have unsupervised access to children. 
(8)    A provider must have safeguards in place to prevent a visitor’s unsupervised access to children, including a sign-in and sign-out process that captures: 
(a)    The individual’s name and relationship to the registered family child care (e.g. volunteer, vendor, guest, landlord, etc.); and 
(b)    Arrival and departure times. 
(9)    A provider must ensure that individuals whose CBR enrollment has been revoked, denied, or suspended, are not on the premises during operating hours or when child care children are present; have contact with children in care; or live on the premises of the child care home (including, but not limited to ADUs or other Alternative Housing units, tiny homes, RVs, trailers, garage apartments, etc.). 
(10)    If additional information is needed to assess a person's ability to care for children or to have access to children, CCLD may require references, an evaluation by a physician, counselor, or other qualified person, or other information. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 & ORS 329A.030 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.330 & ORS 329A.030 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 140-2024, adopt filed 12/11/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
