



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 305 CERTIFIED CHILD CARE CENTERS 
 414-305-0900 
 Furniture 
 
 (1)    A certified child care center must ensure that furniture is: 
(a)    Installed, maintained, and used according to the manufacturer's instructions;  
(b)    Cleanable; 
(c)    Safely constructed and lead free, with no rough or sharp edges or loose parts; 
(d)    In good working condition and repair with no holes or tears; and 
(e)    Stable or anchored.  
(2)    A certified child care center must provide developmentally appropriate table space and seating for all children.  
(3)    A certified child care center must provide a safe, washable cot or rest mat for each toddler and preschool-age child at nap time, for each school-age child who wants to rest, and for a child that needs to be isolated due to illness.  
(a)    Cots or mats must be assigned to individual children and used by one child at a time. 
(b)    Cots and mats must be cleaned and sanitized when soiled and before use by another child.  
(c)    Each mat used for napping must be: 
(A)    Covered with a durable, washable, waterproof, form-fitting material;  
(B)    At least 1 inch thick; and 
(C)    Free of rips, tears or tape. 
(d) Mats or cots must be placed at least 2 feet apart if children are placed head to toe; or 3 feet apart otherwise and arranged in a manner that allows for a direct, unobstructed passage to each child. 
(e) Mats, cots and bed linen must be properly stored so that sleeping surfaces are not touching each other unless cleaned and sanitized after each use. 
(4)    A certified child care center must ensure that each child 12 months of age and older is provided with individual bedding consisting of at least a sheet or blanket. 
(a)    A sheet must cover the entire resting surface. 
(b)    Bedding must either be marked for use by the identified child or laundered daily. 
(A)    All bedding must be thoroughly cleaned and sanitized before use by another child. 
(B)    If marked for use by the individual child, the bedding must be laundered weekly or more frequently if needed. 
(5)    A certified child care center must provide storage space for each child's clothing and personal possessions as well as space for teaching equipment, records and files, and cleaning equipment and supplies. 
(6)    The storage space for children must be labeled with the child’s name, a photograph of the child, or other symbol the child recognizes as referring to themself. 
(7)    A certified child care center must arrange play materials on labeled shelves or in containers to promote and encourage independent access by children. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELD 10-2023, adopt filed 06/28/2023, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
