



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 900 EARLY LEARNING HUBS 
 414-900-0030 
 Administration 
 
 (1) The Department shall administer grants that contribute to building the Early Learning Hub system. The system may not include more than 16 Early Learning Hubs under ORS 417.827. 

 (2) The Department shall administer and manage Grant Agreements with the grant recipients and provide fiscal and program guidelines. In most cases a Grant Agreement will be executed with the Hub’s backbone entity. A prospective Hub grant applicant that has provided a stable organizational and operational structure to the satisfaction of the Department may submit an application for a Grant Agreement without a backbone entity. In all cases, the Governance Council, in collaboration with the Hub Director(s), shall provide oversight and authority of investments. The Governance Council has the authority to approve contracts and/or agreements under ORS 417.827, but may delegate the responsibility to approve contracts and/or agreements to the backbone entity in accordance with the Governance Council’s bylaws or other governing documents. 

 (3) Grant recipients must comply with the terms and conditions of the Grant Agreement including, but not limited to, cooperating with the Department’s program monitoring, technical assistance, program evaluations, and reporting requirements. 

 (4) The Department may conduct a review to determine if any party is out of compliance with the terms of the Grant Agreement. 

 (a) The Department may require technical assistance, planning meetings or other remedial processes as needed to ensure compliance with the terms of the Grant Agreement. 

 (b) The Department may issue a notice of noncompliance outlining concerns and next steps.  

 (c) The Department may request that a party to a Grant Agreement develop and submit a corrective action plan, which must be submitted to the Early Learning Hub Contract Administrator(s) within the timeframe outlined in the Department’s request. The Department must review the plan and issue a decision of approval or disapproval.   

 (A) Parties that do not complete corrective actions or correct noncompliance may be subject to enforcement measures, including but not limited to: additional reporting requirements, conditions on funding, or withholding funds, in whole or in part, by the Department. 

 (B) The Department must provide notice to all parties including the backbone entity, Hub Director, and Governance Council, of remedial action that will terminate or reduce eligibility for Hub funding within the timeframe outlined in the Grant Agreement. 

 (5) Grantees may use additional funds from other sources to carry out the Hub functions outlined in 414-900-0015. 

 (6) Grantees must ensure that Hubs invest and allocate Department-provided funds primarily to serve the region’s identified priority population(s), in accordance with the terms of the Grant Agreement. In addition, Hubs may serve all children aged prenatal to six years old, as resources allow. Department-provided funds must be utilized in a cost-efficient manner while maintaining quality, as determined by the Governance Council. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 417.728 & ORS 417.827 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 417.728 & ORS 417.827 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 6-2025, adopt filed 06/25/2025, effective 10/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
