



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Policy and Analytics - Chapter 409 
 
 
 
 
 Division 62 VALUE-BASED BENEFITS SUBCOMMITTEE 
 409-062-0110 
 VbBS Meeting Material Requirements 
 
 (1) Advance meeting materials include draft materials developed by Health Evidence Review Commission (HERC) staff in preparation for a scheduled Value-based Benefits Subcommittee (VbBS) meeting. Each item includes, but is not limited to, an issue summary document which may include staff description of the issue, staff analysis, research, draft recommendations, and/or supporting literature.  
(2) Advance comment period means a 14-calendar-day period of time for members of the public to review advance meeting materials and to allow time to provide written feedback. 
(3) Final meeting materials include materials that will be presented to the VbBS subcommittee members at the public meeting.  
(4) Exempt topics. The following topics are exempt from this advance meeting material notice and comment process: 
(a) Topics for which there is no recommendation to change the Prioritized List or bylaws. 
(b) Recommendations related to: 
(A) Topics placed on a consent agenda related to topics that do not require discussion. 
(B) Placement or disposition of new medical codes issued by federal authorities fewer than 60 days prior to the meeting. 
(C) A public health emergency as declared by the state’s Public Health Director or to align with state or federal law. 
(D) An emergency use authorization by the United States Food and Drug Administration. 
(E) Coverage changes that require immediate attention as determined by the HERC Director in order to ensure timely access to health care services. 
(c) Topics for which advance meeting materials were previously posted but for which related recommendations were considered but not approved by VbBS, either as recommended by staff or in revised form. 
(d) Topics for which advance meeting materials were previously posted and approved by VbBS and which HERC discussed but did not approve either as recommended by VbBS or in revised form. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 414.688 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OHP 2-2023, adopt filed 11/09/2023, effective 11/09/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
