



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 54 RESIDENTIAL CARE AND ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES 
 411-054-0037 
 Acuity-Based Staffing Tool 
 
 (1) DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN ACUITY-BASED STAFFING. Facilities must select and implement a Department-approved Acuity-Based Staffing Tool (ABST) for determining appropriate staffing levels. Individual resident needs and care elements must be the primary consideration when developing and maintaining an ABST. Regardless of the ABST adopted, all requirements set forth in this rule and OAR 411-054-0034 (Resident Move‑in Evaluation) must be met. Facilities shall: 

 (a) Select and implement the Department’s developed ABST or submit a proprietary ABST to the Department for approval as outlined in paragraph (2) of this rule. 

 (b) Accurately capture care time and care elements that staff are providing to each resident as outlined in each individual service plan. Established care time for each care element must be resident specific, rather than a predetermined average. 

 (c) Develop a staffing plan for each shift, that meets the scheduled and unscheduled needs of all residents. 

 (d) Develop ABST reports and posted staffing plans that reflect distinct and segregated areas as outlined in OAR 411-054-0070(1). 

 (e) If applicable, determine ABST time for residents on a Specific Needs Settings Contract and residents not on a Specific Needs Setting Contract to build posted staffing plan as outlined in this rule. 

 (f) Develop written policies and procedures to accurately and consistently implement the ABST. The policy must explain how a facility evaluates and accounts for both scheduled and unscheduled resident needs. 

 (g) Provide the relevant ABST information for a specific resident if requested by the Department, that specific resident, that specific resident’s legal representative, or the Long-Term Care Ombudsman. 

 (2) PROPRIETARY ABST. A facility that chooses to use a proprietary ABST must implement a Department-approved ABST that meets this rule. 

 (a) REQUIRED ELEMENTS. The proprietary ABST the facility adopts must meet the following requirements: 

 (A) Facilities can group or combine ABST care elements in their ABST reports, however each resident’s ABST evaluation must individually address and document all ABST care elements outlined in paragraph (3) of this rule. 

 (B) When calculating total time, the ABST must include the care elements for each resident and staff time needed to complete each individual care element. 

 (C) Ensure the ABST can produce a report that identifies all residents currently residing in the facility, the care elements for each of the residents, and the staff time required to complete the care elements for each resident. 

 (D) ABST total time must present in minutes per shift, per day. If the proprietary ABST does not have this functionality, at a minimum the ABST total time must present in daily minutes. If a Proprietary ABST presents total time in daily minutes the facility’s ABST policy must describe how staffing per shift is determined. 

 (E) Identify the date the resident’s ABST evaluation was last completed. 

 (F) If applicable, determine ABST time for both residents on a Specific Needs Contract and residents not on a Specific Needs Contract to build posted staffing plans as outlined in this rule. 

 (b) PROPRIETARY ABST REVIEW REQUEST. If a facility proposes to use a proprietary ABST, the facility must submit the Proprietary ABST ODHS Review Request form (se528132), including but not limited to the following: 

 (A) Facilities who want to implement or switch to a proprietary ABST must submit Proprietary ABST ODHS Review Request form (se528132) prior to implementation. 

 (B) Sample ABST report displaying the ABST care elements, and the staff time needed to complete the displayed care elements, with a total time in minutes shown per shift, per day. If the proprietary ABST only provides total time in daily minutes, the facility’s ABST policy must describe how staffing per shift is determined. 

 (C) The facility’s ABST policy required under OAR 411-054-0025(7)(i). 

 (c) ABST SUMMARY STATEMENT. If the proprietary review request is approved, a facility must develop and maintain an ABST Summary Statement that meets the requirements, as outlined in the Proprietary ABST ODHS Review Request form (se528132). This includes providing a general guide explaining how the ABST functions. The summary statement must be available upon request by the Department. 

 (d) DEPARTMENT REVIEW OF PROPOSED PROPRIETARY ABST REQUEST. The Department will review and either approve or deny the facility’s proprietary ABST. The Department may request additional documentation, potentially including a virtual demonstration, to make the determination. If the ABST is deemed to not meet this rule, the Department may deny or rescind approval at any time. The Department shall provide the facility with a written explanation of the reasons for the denial or decision to rescind approval. If a facility appeals a decision to rescind, the facility may continue to use the facility’s existing proprietary ABST until a final order has been issued. 

 (e) APPEALS PROCESS. The Department will determine whether to approve or deny the request. If the proprietary ABST is denied or rescinded, the facility is entitled to a contested case hearing pursuant to ORS chapter 183. Prior to a contested case hearing, the facility may request an informal conference. 

 (f) ANNUAL STATEMENT. Once approved, the facility must provide the Department an annual statement attesting no substantive changes have occurred to the design of the facility’s proprietary ABST that impacts its functionality. The facility must submit statements to the Department every year, between January 1 and March 31. 

 (g) If the facility makes substantive changes to the proprietary ABST design, and if those changes impact ABST functionality making the prior submitted information inaccurate or invalid, then the facility must re-submit to the Department the Proprietary ABST ODHS Review Request Form (se528132) as described in this rule for review prior to implementing the new or revised ABST. 

 (3) ABST CARE ELEMENTS. The required ABST care elements include activities of daily living and other tasks related to resident care and services, as outlined in OAR 411-054-0030, 411-054-0034, and 411-057-0160. If any individual care element requires more than one staff, additional time must be accounted for as described in 411-054-0070(1). The ABST must individually address and document the care time required to complete each of the following individual ABST care elements: 

 (a) Personal hygiene. 

 (b) Grooming. 

 (c) Dressing and undressing. 

 (d) Toileting, bowel, and bladder management. 

 (e) Bathing. 

 (f) Transfers. 

 (g) Repositioning. 

 (h) Ambulation. 

 (i) Supervising, cueing, or supporting while eating. 

 (j) Medication administration. 

 (k) Providing non-drug interventions for pain management. 

 (l) Providing treatments. 

 (m) Cueing or redirecting due to cognitive impairment or dementia. 

 (n) Ensuring non-drug interventions for behaviors. 

 (o) Assisting with leisure activities, assist with social and recreational activities. 

 (p) Monitoring physical conditions or symptoms. 

 (q) Monitoring behavioral conditions or symptoms. 

 (r) Assisting with communication, assistive devices for hearing, vision, and speech. 

 (s) Responding to call lights. 

 (t) Safety checks, fall prevention 

 (u) Completing resident specific housekeeping or laundry services performed by care staff. 

 (v) Providing additional care services. If additional services are not provided, this element can be omitted. 

 (4) FREQUENCY OF UPDATES. Facilities must complete, update, review, and document the ABST evaluation for each resident according to the following schedule. 

 (a) Before a resident moves in. 

 (b) Whenever there is a significant change of condition as defined in OAR 411-054-0040(1)(b). 

 (c) No less than quarterly and corresponding with resident service plan updates, updating as required by OAR 411-054-0034. 

 (5) DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN UPDATED POSTED STAFFING PLAN. Each facility should use the results of an ABST to develop and update the facility’s posted staffing plan. The staffing plan must outline the staffing numbers required to meet the scheduled and unscheduled needs of all residents in the facility, for each shift. The ABST and staffing plan must be reviewed at the frequency required in paragraph (4) of this rule. 

 (a) The posted staffing plan must incorporate: 

 (A) The total ABST care time in minutes per shift, per day. If a proprietary ABST does not have this functionality, at a minimum the ABST total time must be shown in daily minutes as referenced in paragraph (2) of this rule. 

 (B) The unscheduled care needs of residents. 

 (C) The staffing requirements outlined in OAR 411-054-0070(1). 

 (D) Any other applicable factors to be considered. (e.g., disruptions to normal facility operations.) 

 (E) The time for paid or unpaid staff meal breaks must be accounted for and should not be included in the total scheduled staff time per shift. 

 (F) The facility’s distinct and segregated areas as outlined in OAR 411-054-0070(1) to meet the scheduled and unscheduled needs of residents who reside in each segregated area. Each distinct and segregated area must have a posted staffing plan. 

 (G) The staffing needs required under the Specific Needs Contracts, if applicable. 

 (b) The facility must maintain staffing documentation to show consistent staffing to meet or exceed the posted staffing plan 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 

 (c) The facility must maintain historical posted staffing plans. The posted staffing plan must contain the date(s) it was effective. Records must be kept for a minimum of three years. 

 (6) CONSISTENTLY MEETING NEEDS. The facility must consistently meet the scheduled and unscheduled needs of all residents, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 

 (7) ABST REPORTING OF SPECIFIC NEEDS CONTRACTS AND EXCEPTIONAL PAYMENTS. Staffing required by a Specific Needs Contract (Contract), as described in OAR chapter 411, division 027, must be included in a facility’s ABST. 

 (a) If all residents within the facility are receiving service through a Contract: 

 (A) The facility’s staffing plan must include the number of staff required by the Contract and additional staff time, if required to meet the scheduled and unscheduled needs of the residents. 

 (B) If the ABST staffing analysis indicates numbers higher than the Contract, the facility must staff to the numbers indicated by the ABST. 

 (b) If certain residents within the facility are served under a Contract, and other residents are not served by a Contract: 

 (A) The facility must maintain a posted staffing plan that includes the staffing required for residents served by the Contract as well as the staffing required for residents not served by the Contract. 

 (B) The facility must prepare two distinct ABST reports: one for residents served by the Contract and the other for residents not served by the Contract. 

 (C) If the ABST indicates higher staffing numbers than the Contract for residents who are served by the Contract, the facility must staff to numbers indicated by the ABST. 

 (c) If the facility has any residents funded by an exceptional payment, as provided in OAR 411-027-0050, that must be included in the ABST and the facility must staff to the greater of the numbers as indicated in the exception or the ABST. 

 (8) ABST DOCUMENTATION: Each facility must be able to provide the Department with the following documentation, including but not limited to: 

 (a) Current ABST report. 

 (b) ABST total staff time in minutes necessary to meet the scheduled needs of residents daily, per shift, per day. If a proprietary ABST does not have this functionality, at a minimum the ABST total time must be shown in daily minutes as referenced in paragraph (2) of this rule. 

 (c) The date the last ABST evaluation for each individual resident was completed. 

 (d) The facility’s proprietary ABST Summary Statement, if applicable. 

 (e) The Department’s ABST Proprietary Review Request form documenting the Department’s approval, upon request of the Department. 

 (f) The staffing needs required under the Specific Needs Contracts or Exceptional Payments, if applicable. 

 (9) REVIEW BY DEPARTMENT. 

 (a) The Department is required to assess facility staffing levels each time the Department conducts a survey or an investigation into a complaint regarding: 

 (A) Resident abuse; 

 (B) Resident injury; 

 (C) Resident safety; or 

 (D) Staffing levels. 

 (b) The Department must confirm the facility is using a Departmentapproved ABST that meets the requirements established in this rule. This includes verifying whether the facility is: 

 (A) Consistently meeting the scheduled and unscheduled needs of all residents 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 

 (B) Consistently updating staffing levels at the frequency required by paragraph (4) of this rule. 

 (C) Consistently staffing to the posted staffing plan as required by paragraph (5) of this rule. 

 (10) REQUIRED REGULATORY ACTION. 

 (a) The Department is required to take the following actions if it determines the facility: 

 (A) Has not selected and implemented an ABST, the Department will require the facility to adopt and implement the ODHS ABST until the facility selects and implements either the Department’s ABST or a Department-approved proprietary ABST. 

 (B) Is not meeting the scheduled and unscheduled needs of all residents 24 hours a day, seven days a week, the Department shall place a license condition in accordance with OAR 411-054-0110(3)(a), (b), (c) or (f). The facility will be monitored for continued compliance or until the licensed condition is withdrawn. 

 (b) The Department may issue corrective action in accordance with OAR 411-054-0106 to compel compliance if the facility is not: 

 (A) Consistently staffing to the levels, intensity and qualifications indicated by the ABST. 

 (B) Updating the posted staffing plan to meet the scheduled and unscheduled needs of all residents. 

 (C) Updating the ABST for all residents at required frequencies, as outlined in paragraph (4) of this rule. 

 (D) Accurately capturing the care element time in the ABST based on the typical time taken to complete the task for each individual resident. 

 (E) Accurately capturing the care being provided by staff or outlined in the resident’s personal service plan. 

 (F) Using a Department-approved ABST. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070, 443.450 & 443.738 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 443.400 - 443.455, 443.738, 443.991 & 678.710 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 69-2024, amend filed 12/20/2024, effective 12/24/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 29-2024, temporary amend filed 06/21/2024, effective 07/01/2024 through 12/27/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 27-2022, adopt filed 06/15/2022, effective 06/24/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 58-2021, temporary adopt filed 12/23/2021, effective 01/01/2022 through 06/29/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
