



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Forestry 
 Chapter 629 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 42 FIRE CONTROL 
 629-042-1060 
 Certified Burn Manager Advisory Committee 
 
 (1) A Certified Burn Manager Advisory Committee shall provide recommendations to the Forester in administering the Certified Burn Manager program as described in ORS 526.360(3). 
(2) The Certified Burn Manager Advisory Committee shall: 
(a) Consist of seven members; 
(b) Select a chairperson to coordinate the work of the Committee; 
(c) Meet at least twice each calendar year; 
(d) Advise the Forester on the administration of the Certified Burn Manager program; and 
(e) Conduct reviews of proposed certificate revocation, when requested pursuant to OAR 629-042-1035(4). 
(3) The Department of Forestry provides administrative support for the Certified Burn Manager Advisory Committee and all sub-committees therein. 
(4) The Certified Burn Manager Advisory Committee shall consist of members broadly representative of the industries, associations, and professions involved in the planning and execution of prescribed fire. 
(5) In addition to the members designated in section (4) of this rule, representatives of the following federal agencies shall be invited to serve as ex-officio members of the advisory committee: 
(a) A representative of the United States Forest Service. 
(b) A representative of the United States Bureau of Land Management. 
(c) A representative of the United States Bureau of Indian Affairs. 
(6) The Forester shall serve as secretary for the committee. 
(7) Applying for an appointment to the Certified Burn Manager Advisory Committee. 
(a) Priority in selection shall be given first to applicants holding a Certified Burn Manager Certificate, and then second to prescribed fire practitioners. 
(b) Any interested person may submit a completed interest form to the Department of Forestry to apply for an appointment to the Certified Burn Manager Advisory Committee. 
(c) An interest form must be submitted to the Department of Forestry to be considered for an appointment to the Committee. Interest forms are available on the Department of Forestry’s website or by email upon request. 
(d) Completed interest forms will be kept on file consistent with the Department’s record retention policy. 
(e) The Department of Forestry will acknowledge receipt of each completed interest form. 
(f) The State Forester will appoint members to the Certified Burn Manager Advisory Committee. 
(g) Committee members may serve two consecutive 3-year terms; however, initial terms may be adjusted to ensure Committee stability. 
(8) Vacancies 
(a) A vacancy exists when a Committee member completes the term for that position; resigns; becomes incapacitated or is otherwise incapable of performing the duties of a member; has been removed from the appointment for just cause; is not reappointed; is no longer employed in the position that the appointment represents; or is no longer affiliated with the association or organization that the appointment represents. 
(b) Any vacancy subject to this rule will be filled in the same manner as an initial appointment. 
(9) The Committee may create subcommittees and appoint people to serve on those subcommittees. 
(10) The State Forester may remove an appointed member for just cause. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 526.360 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 526.016 & 526.041 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOF 8-2022, adopt filed 11/29/2022, effective 11/30/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
