



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 333 PSILOCYBIN 
 333-333-5070 
 Interpreters and Client Support Persons 
 
 (1) If an interpreter or client support person will be present during receipt of psilocybin services, a client and facilitator must meet with the interpreter or client support person prior to beginning the administration session. 

 (2) In addition to the client support persons identified in OAR 333-333-5050(5)(d), (f), (g) or (m), a client may choose to invite one client support person over 21 years of age to attend their administration session as an observer. Service centers and facilitators must ensure that client support persons who attend administration sessions as observers comply with all of the requirements for client support persons described in these rules. Service centers and facilitators may decline a client’s request to invite a client support person to attend their administration session as an observer. 

 (3) During the meeting required by section (1) of this rule a client and facilitator must work together with the interpreter or client support person to complete a written support person plan using the form published by the Oregon Health Authority (Authority) that contains the following information: 

 (a) The name of the interpreter or client support person who will attend the session. 

 (b) The specific purpose for which the interpreter or client support person will be present, including but not limited to identifying any prescription medications, non-prescription medication, nutritional supplements or medical devices that the client will utilize during administration session. 

 (c) Whether the interpreter or client support person will be present for the duration of an administration session or whether they will be available as needed. 

 (d) A signed statement that the interpreter or client support person agrees to the following conditions: 

 (A) Interpreters and client support persons will be present for the specific purposes described in their support person plan and shall not provide psilocybin services nor interfere or otherwise participate in the administration session. 

 (B) Interpreters and client support persons must comply with the facilitator’s reasonable directions during an administration session. Facilitators may request that client support persons acting as observers leave the administration session at any time. 

 (C) Interpreters and client support persons, facilitators and service centers shall not share or disclose any information regarding clients’ participation in psilocybin services. 

 (4) Client support persons shall perform only those activities identified in the written support person plan described in section (3) of this rule. 

 (5) Client support persons are prohibited from touching clients except as required to perform activities identified in the written support person plan described in section (3) of this rule. Facilitators must ensure that client support persons who are acting as observers are limited to giving hugs or placing hands on a client’s hands, feet or shoulders with the client's prior written consent. 

 (6) During the meeting required by section (1) of this rule a facilitator must instruct the client support person not to disclose any information that may be used to identify a client, nor disclose any communication made by a client related to psilocybin services. 

 (7) During the meeting required by section (1) of this rule a facilitator must provide a copy of the Client Bill of Rights, discuss the process for making complaints to the Authority and allow the interpreter or client support person an opportunity to ask questions. 

 (8) All client records, including any copies of client records, described by this rule must be stored at the service center where the client participates or intends to participate in an administration session as required by OAR 333-333-4820. 

 (9) Facilitators and licensee representatives of a service center are prohibited from acting as client support person during an administration session for which they are acting as a facilitator or licensee representative. 

 (10) Service centers and facilitators may not: 

 (a) Provide nor compensate client support persons who attend client administration sessions. 

 (b) Require a client to a use a specific client support person. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 475A.235 & ORS 475A.340 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 475A.340 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 82-2024, amend filed 11/22/2024, effective 01/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 58-2023, amend filed 12/21/2023, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 206-2022, adopt filed 12/27/2022, effective 12/27/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
