



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 DEPARTMENT REGULATORY PROGRAMS 
 836-200-0730 
 Application Process 
 
 (1) There is an initial application window of 60 calendar days from the program’s initial launch date. All applications received during the initial 60-calendar day window will be screened and scored by department staff. Eligible entities may apply past the 60-calendar day window but will receive lower payment priority than applications submitted in the first 60 days. 

 (2) Applications must be submitted electronically or by mail and be received by the department. To be included in the initial 60-calandar day review window, all application materials must be submitted and received by the department on or before the 60th day of the initial application window. 

 (3) Initial premium assistance payments shall commence following the close of the initial application window. If program funds remain available after this date, assistance payments to additional eligible entities will occur monthly on the 15th calendar day of each month. 

 (4) Each application must include: 

 (a) Name of the eligible entity; 

 (b) The name(s) of the owner(s), senior leadership, and their job title within the eligible entity; 

 (c) Specify the applicant’s eligible entity type (e.g. affordable housing owner and/or operators, shelter location owners and/or operators, etc.); 

 (d) Applicants that are an affordable housing owner or operator must disclose if they have applied for and received preservation funding from Oregon Housing and Community Services; 

 (e) Description of the housing or shelter stock (year structure(s) was built; type of structure(s), i.e. single-family, multi-family, or high-density living spaces; and number of units or number of shelter beds); 

 (f) Geographic designation (urban, suburban, rural; inland vs coastal; proximity to areas considered to have elevated wildfire risk); 

 (g) Documentation of insurance premium payments, to include: 

 (A) A legible copy of the insurance policy declaration page for the current and prior year policy coverage periods; and 

 (B) Proof of annual premium payment(s) for the current and prior year policy coverage periods, such as a copy of the payment check(s) or an electronic payment receipt(s). 

 (h) Applicant must provide a narrative description of their efforts to maintain, preserve, or increase their existing affordable housing inventory or number of available shelter beds; 

 (i) Entity classification (for-profit, nonprofit, public); 

 (A) Nonprofit entities must provide the following documentation: 

 (i) A copy of the most recent nonprofit corporation annual report filed with the Oregon Secretary of State. If an applicant is a public benefit nonprofit, a copy of the annual report to the Oregon Department of Justice – Charitable Activities Division must also be included; and 

 (ii) Proof of listing on the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Tax-Exempt Organization Search (TEOS) database; or 

 (iii) A copy of the applicant’s IRS determination letter. 

 (B) For profit entities must provide the following documentation: 

 (i) A copy of the two most recent audited annual financial statements; 

 (ii) A copy of the two most recent Federal tax filings; and 

 (iii) A copy of the two most recent Oregon state tax filings. 

 (j) Under penalty of perjury, provide a legal attestation by the owner, senior partner(s), or duly appointed legal representative of the eligible entity that the contents of the application, to include all supporting documents submitted, are truthful, accurate, and complete. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731.244 & Or Laws 2025, ch 600 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 746.100, ORS 746.110 & ORS 746.240 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 3-2026, adopt filed 03/26/2026, effective 04/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
