



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
   Temporary rule language in effect until 02/21/2027. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Business Development Department 
 Chapter 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 710 MICRO-ENTERPRISE TARIFF ADJUSTMENT GRANTS 
 123-710-0050 
 Grant Award Lottery Protocol 
 
 (1) All eligible applicants will be assigned a unique identifier and entered into a randomized lottery. The order in which applications were received does not affect an applicant’s position in the lottery. 

 (2) The Department will conduct a single randomized drawing of all eligible applicants that produces a sequentially ranked list. The ranked list determines the order in which applicants are selected and processed for grant awards. 

 (3) The Department will advance through the ranked list in sequential order to select applicants for Program grants. The Department will cease advancing through the ranked list when the remaining available Program funds are insufficient to issue a minimum grant to the next ranked applicant, or when the eligible applicant pool is depleted, whichever occurs first. 

 (4) The Department will provide selected applicants with a notice of intent to award. The notice of intent to award will include, at a minimum: 

 (a) the amount of the conditional grant award; and 

 (b) a list of required documents and information that the applicant must provide prior to receiving a grant award. Required documents and information may include, but are not limited to: 

 (A) banking information necessary to make the grant; 

 (B) Qualifying Documentation as defined in OAR 123-710-0010; and 

 (C) any other documents or information the Department deems necessary to verify eligibility, confirm the grant amount, or to ensure the integrity of the Program. 

 (5) Applicants will have 30 business days to produce any required documents and information. The Department may extend this period at its discretion. 

 (6) The Department will require documentation and information in the notice of intent to award if: 

 (a) The application contains inconsistent or unclear information; 

 (b) The Attested Tariff Amount that requires additional support based on the Annual Sales, number of entries or shipments, or other information provided in the application; 

 (c) The Department selects the application for random verification selection; or 

 (d) The Department determines that documentation or is needed to verify eligibility, calculate the grant amount, or protect Program integrity. 

 (7) The Department will disqualify applicants that do not timely submit the required documents or information requested in the notice of intent to award; if the Department determines that the applicant is not eligible; if the Department determines that the applicants submitted false, inaccurate, or materially misleading information; or if the Department finds that to make the grant may impair the integrity of the award process or that such disqualification is in the best interest of the Department. 

 (8) If an applicant is disqualified, the unawarded amount remains in the available Program funds pool and the Department will advance to the next ranked applicant on the list. 

 (9) Applicants not reached before pool exhaustion under subsection (3) will be notified that Program funds have been exhausted. Non-selected applicants are not entitled to a grant and have no claim against remaining or returned funds. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Oregon Laws 2026, Chapter 39 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Oregon Laws 2026, Chapter 39 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 18-2026, temporary adopt filed 08/26/2026, effective 08/26/2026 through 02/21/2027 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
