



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-0230 
 Parental Permissions 
 
 (1) A certified ONB program must have the following current permissions from parent(s) when applicable:   
(a) Documentation of permission for an individual not listed in the child’s records to pick up the child that includes: 
(A) Date and time of the permission; 
(B) Period of time the permission is valid; 
(C) Name of the individual providing permission; 
(D) Name of the individual permitted to pick up the child; and 
(E) Name of the program staff receiving the permission. 
(b) Signed and dated parent permission for each medication, prior to administration, that includes: 
(A) The child’s name; 
(B) The name of and reason for the medication; 
(C) The dosage, dates, and times to administer the medication, and how the medication will be given; and 
(D) Whether the medication needs to be refrigerated.   
(c) For chronic medical conditions, a certified ONB program may obtain permission applicable for 12 months or less with specific instructions including when administration is needed, such inhalers (also see OAR 414-320-1030, Medications). 
(d) Signed and dated parental permission for participation in any certified ONB program-sponsored religious or cultural event. Parental permission is also required for any special occasions where food is served; 
(e) Signed and dated parental permission prior to the certified ONB program transporting a child that includes: 
(A) The child’s name; 
(B) The purpose of transportation; 
(C) Whether a certified ONB program or personal vehicle is used and whether the driver is staff or a volunteer; and 
(D) A specific pick-up and drop-off plan that addresses the location, times, and transfer of supervision. 
(f) Written parental permission for a school-age child to leave the certified ONB program premises on their own.  
(2) A certified ONB program must have written parent permission prior to a field trip or other activity away from the licensed premises. Field trip permission must be specific with dates, times, and locations for each field trip. 
(3) A certified ONB program must have signed and dated parental permission prior to allowing a child to participate in risky play activities, such as swimming, tool use, or climbing natural features, on or off the premises, and share the risk management policies or procedures with parents that includes: 
(a) Minimum ratios for the activity; 
(b) Conditions for the child's participation, such as their age and skill levels; 
(c) Special equipment necessary, such as safety helmets or specific clothing; and 
(d) Safety practices followed. 
(4) A certified ONB program must obtain written parental permission prior to using photographs or recordings of a child publicly (e.g. social media, advertisements). 
(5) If a family served by a certified ONB program is experiencing homelessness, the ONB program must make efforts to follow OAR 414-320-0230 (1) through (4). If a certified ONB program is unable to acquire written parental permissions, permissions may be received verbally, when documented by the certified ONB program, or electronically, such as through a text message or e-mail. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
