



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 16 OREGON PROJECT INDEPENDENCE - MEDICAID (OPI-M) 
 411-016-0075 
 Consumer-Employer Responsibilities 
 
 (1) CONSUMER-EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITIES. To be eligible for OPI-M in-home services provided by a homecare worker, an individual or the individual’s representative must be able to: 

 (a) Locate, screen, and hire a qualified homecare worker; 

 (b) Supervise and train the homecare worker; 

 (c) Schedule the homecare worker’s work, leave, and coverage; 

 (d) Track the hours worked and verify the authorized hours completed by the homecare worker; 

 (e) Recognize, discuss, and attempt to correct any performance deficiencies with the homecare worker; 

 (f) Discharge an unsatisfactory homecare worker; and 

 (g) Follow all employer responsibilities required by law to ensure the workplace is safe from harassment. 

 (2) The Department may require individuals who have failed to meet the responsibilities in section (1) of this rule to designate a representative to exercise these responsibilities. A representative of an individual may not be a homecare worker providing In-Home services to the individual. 

 (a) Individuals who have failed to meet the responsibilities in section (1) of this rule and who do not have a representative are ineligible for in-home services provided by a homecare worker. 

 (b) Individuals must also be offered other available OPI-M service options to meet the individual’s service needs. 

 (3) An individual determined ineligible for in-home services provided by a homecare worker and who does not have a representative may request in-home services provided by a homecare worker at the individual’s next re-assessment, but no sooner than 12 months from the date the individual was determined ineligible. 

 (a) To reestablish eligibility for in-home services provided by a homecare worker, an individual must attend training and acquire, or otherwise demonstrate, the ability to meet the employer responsibilities in section (1) of this rule. Improvements in health and cognitive functioning, for example, may be factors in demonstrating the individual’s ability to meet the employer responsibilities in section (1) of this rule. 

 (b) If the Department determines an individual may not meet the individual’s employer responsibilities, the Department may require the individual to appoint an acceptable representative. 

 (4) The Department retains the right to approve the representative selected by an individual. Approval may be based on, but is not limited to, the representative’s criminal history, protective services history, or credible allegations of fraud or collusion in fraudulent activities involving a public assistance program. 

 (5) If an individual’s representative is unable to meet the employer responsibilities of section (1) of this rule, or the Department does not approve the representative, the individual must designate a different representative or select other available services. 

 (6) An individual with a history of credible allegations of fraud or collusion in fraud with respect to in-home services is not eligible for in-home services provided by a homecare worker. 

 (7) REPRESENTATIVE. 

 (a) The Department may require that an individual obtain a representative to act as the consumer-employer or for service planning purposes. 

 (b) The Department, or the Department’s designee, may deny an individual’s request for any representative if the representative has a history of a substantiated adult protective service complaint as described in OAR chapter 411, division 020. The individual may select another representative. 

 (c) An individual with a guardian must have a representative to act as the consumer-employer and for service planning purposes. A guardian may designate themselves as the representative. 

 (d) A representative may not be a paid caregiver for the individual they are representing. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.060, 410.070 & 414.065 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 64-2024, adopt filed 11/20/2024, effective 11/22/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 22-2024, temporary adopt filed 05/20/2024, effective 05/31/2024 through 11/26/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
