



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Corrections 
 Chapter 291 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 19 TRANSFER (COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS) 
 291-019-0215 
 Transfer of All Other Adults on Supervision Between Community Corrections Agencies: Standards for Request and Acceptance 
 
 (1) Requests: 

 (a) Whenever an officer has given an adult on supervision permission to relocate to a different county, within 30 calendar days of permission given, the officer shall submit a transfer investigation request to the receiving county on all cases including non-funded misdemeanors that accompany a felony or funded misdemeanor. 

 (A) If the purpose of the change of residence is for residential treatment and a return is anticipated, no transfer is necessary. 

 (B) For low or limited supervision level and low risk level adults on supervision, the sending county will notify the receiving county in writing that the individual now resides in their county. The receiving county may review their history in CIS or OMS to determine whether they wish to assume supervision. The decision to investigate and accept supervision shall be at the discretion of the receiving county. 

 (b) Transfer Investigation: In all cases involving the transfer of supervision responsibility for an adult on supervision, the sending county shall ensure that the following information is up to date and accurate in the adult on supervision’s file and, where applicable, in CIS, OMS, and LEDS EPR prior to making the investigation request: 

 (A) Name: Last, first, and middle; 

 (B) Date of birth; 

 (C) SID Number: If none is available, the sending county shall submit a fingerprint card to the State Identification Bureau prior to transfer in accordance with OSP regulations to ensure prints are accepted and an SID can be issued; 

 (D) Crime(s); 

 (E) County(ies); 

 (F) Sentencing data including county, docket numbers, and expiration date for each case; 

 (G) History or risk score according to the Public Safety Checklist or PROXY; 

 (H) Date of request to transfer; 

 (I) Special Conditions: List all special conditions including specific dollar amounts for restitution, community service hours, and any other conditions requiring specificity; 

 (J) Residence: Provide a complete address; rural addresses should include specific directions on location of the residence as well as a description; and 

 (K) Conformance: Note any non-compliance with either the general or special conditions of supervision. Reflect the exact amount of any financial obligations owed to date and any other pertinent information. 

 (L) Court orders, or parole or post-prison supervision order; 

 (M) Sex offender evaluation (if applicable and available); 

 (N) Presentence investigation or police reports; 

 (O) Completed sex offender risk assessment (if applicable); and 

 (P) Most recent treatment progress report or treatment discharge report. 

 (2) Acceptance or Rejection: 

 (a) The receiving county must complete the investigation and respond to the sending county within 30 calendar days of submission by the sending county. 

 (b) The transfer request must be accepted if the adult on supervision has a job or other legitimate source of income, a residence, and means to comply with the special conditions of their supervision unless: 

 (A) The only active supervision is for a non-funded misdemeanor and the receiving county is unable to provide supervision based on misdemeanant status, due to county policy or resource limitations; or 

 (B) Public safety would be compromised by the transfer (e.g., a sex offender residing in a dwelling where children are present; a proposed residence provider supporting sex offender’s denial or noncompliance; a drug offender residing in a known drug house; an arson offender residing in a boarding house); or 

 (C) The supervision is for a low or limited supervision level or low risk adult on supervision, whereas the decision to accept supervision is at the discretion of the receiving county. 

 (c) Neither non-compliance nor outstanding non-funded misdemeanor warrants shall be grounds for rejection. Felony and funded misdemeanor warrants and warrants involving active cases for which an adult on supervision is under formal supervision shall be resolved prior to the transfer process. 

 (d) Supervision of a non-funded misdemeanor must be accepted if there is concurrent felony or funded misdemeanor supervision. 

 (e) Outstanding Warrants and Pending Criminal Charges or Violations: Prior to transfer, the sending county shall: 

 (A) Make reasonable efforts to resolve any warrants; 

 (B) Remove any individual county requirements outside of usual practice; 

 (C) Report all non-compliance or violations to the releasing authority; and 

 (D) Be responsible for resolving all pending non-compliance or violations. The sending county should collaborate with the receiving county to determine an appropriate response to pending violations. 

 (f) When a transfer is rejected in the interest of public safety, the adult on supervision shall be directed by the receiving county to return to the sending county or to secure a suitable residence elsewhere. Failure of the adult on supervision to do so is a violation and may be grounds for revocation. The reason for rejection needs to be specified and reviewed by the unit supervisor. 

 (g) During the transfer investigation, if an officer from the receiving county observes a violation or has reason to believe that a violation has occurred, that officer shall immediately report the alleged violation to the sending county for appropriate response. 

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 6-2022, adopt filed 08/08/2022, effective 08/08/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
