



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 360 CERTIFIED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-360-0750 
 Suspension and Expulsion Prevention  
 
 (1) A provider must develop and implement a suspension and expulsion prevention policy. The intent of the suspension and expulsion prevention policy is to ensure that young children are supported to remain in care. 
(2) The suspension and expulsion prevention policy must:   
(a) Be consistent with the provider’s Behavior and Guidance policy (OAR 414-360-0700);  
(b) Identify existing supports or tools that may be accessed;  
(c) If there are additional caregivers, identify when and how caregivers must seek support when challenges related to the care of children arise, including:  
(A) When and in what circumstances caregivers must seek support;  
(B) How the provider will respond to requests for support from other caregivers, and  
(C) What program level supports may be made available to the caregivers.  
(d) Identify how the provider will determine if additional supports are needed for a child;  
(e) Identify when the provider will request services from Every Child Belongs (ECB); and  
(f) Include the method that the provider will use to notify a family of concerns related to a child’s behavior, such as written notification or an in-person conference.  
(3) When a young child is facing potential expulsion, as defined in these rules, a provider must:  
(a) Document the challenging behaviors and any known triggers (for example: specific activities, times of day, transitions);  
(b) Document what strategies and supports the provider has used to support the child and their effectiveness;  
(c) Request services from Every Child Belongs (ECB); and  
(d) Simultaneously with the request for services from ECB, notify the child’s family regarding the behavior concerns to:   
(A) Begin to collaboratively problem-solve to identify potential strategies and supports for the child; and    
(B) Establish frequency and method of ongoing communication with the family.  
(4) If the provider is unable to connect with the child’s family, as outlined in OAR 414-360-0750(3)(d), the provider must attempt alternative methods of communication and document those attempts.  
(5) A provider may implement a temporary safety-based intervention if a child’s behavior creates a serious safety threat, as defined by these rules.  
(6) A provider may only use a temporary safety-based intervention if:  
(a) There is behavior that meets the definition of serious safety threat. The provider must document the behavior; and  
(b) The provider has attempted to address the behavior through strategies outlined in their Behavior and Guidance Policy (OAR 414-360-0700), strategies suggested by the family, and any recommendations from professionals previously consulted about the child.  
(7) If a provider initiates a temporary safety-based intervention, the provider must:  
(a) Notify the child's family or other emergency contact immediately; 
(b) Contact ECB immediately to request services, if not already done; and   
(c) Notify CCLD of the temporary safety-based intervention and expected duration by 5:00pm the next business day.   
(8) The length of a temporary safety-based intervention may only be for the time necessary to incorporate supports to reduce the occurrence of the behavior. The temporary safety-based intervention must end as soon as safety can be maintained with supports in place.   
(9) The provider must document the basis for the duration of the temporary safety-based intervention.  
(10) During the temporary safety-based intervention, the provider must communicate with the family regarding:   
(a) Updates on access to supports;  
(b) Any changes to the child’s behaviors while not in care; and  
(c) Timeline to return to care.   
(11) If requested by CCLD, a provider must update CCLD if the expected duration of the temporary safety-based intervention changes. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.600 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 9-2026, adopt filed 06/29/2026, effective 09/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
