



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 333 PSILOCYBIN 
 333-333-6220 
 Suspended Licenses: Posting of Suspension Notice Sign, Activities Allowed During Suspension 
 
 (1) Before 6:00 AM on the date a license suspension goes into effect, and until the suspension is completed, Authority staff must ensure that a suspension notice sign is posted on each outside entrance or door to the licensed premises of a service center, manufacturer or laboratory. 

 (2) The suspension notice sign must be posted in a way that allows any person entering the licensed premises to read it. Licensees must use the suspension notice sign provided by the Authority. The sign will state that the license has been suspended by order of the Authority. If there are multiple licenses at the location, the sign will specify which license privileges have been suspended. 

 (3) During the period of license suspension, the licensee is responsible for ensuring: 

 (a) Compliance with all applicable laws and rules. 

 (b) That the suspension notice sign is not removed, altered, or covered. 

 (4) A service center licensee or licensee representative may not allow sale, delivery to or from, or receipt of psilocybin products at the licensed premises, or provision of psilocybin services at licensed premises, during the period that the license is under suspension, except as otherwise permitted by the Authority in the order of suspension. During the period that the license is under suspension, a licensee may operate the licensed entity only in compliance with this rule. 

 (5) A manufacturer licensee or licensee representative may not allow sale, delivery to or from, or receipt of psilocybin products at the licensed premises, harvesting or drying of fungi, processing of psilocybin product during the period that the license is under suspension, except as otherwise permitted by the Authority in the order of suspension. During the period that a license is suspended, a licensee may operate the licensed entity only in compliance with this rule. 

 (6) A facilitator licensee may not provide psilocybin services during the period that the license is under suspension, except as otherwise permitted by the Authority in the order of suspension. 

 (7) A laboratory licensee or licensee representative may not allow delivery to or from, or receipt of psilocybin products at the licensed premises or testing of psilocybin products during the period that the license is under suspension, except as otherwise permitted by the Authority in the order of suspension. During the period that the license is under suspension, a licensee may operate the licensed entity only in compliance with this rule. 

 (8) A permittee may not perform any of the activities described in OAR 333-333-4700 during the period that their worker permit is under suspension, except as otherwise permitted by the Authority in the order of suspension. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 475A.235 & ORS 475A.420 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 475A.235 & ORS 475A.420 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 206-2022, adopt filed 12/27/2022, effective 12/27/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
