



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 271 Rules Invalidated by the Oregon Court of Appeals (Northwest Natural Gas Co. v. Env’t Quality Comm’n, 329 Or App 648 (2023)): Oregon Climate Protection Program 
 340-271-0510 
 Compliance Instrument Trade Notifications and Process 
 
 (1) Covered fuel suppliers that trade one or more compliance instruments must notify DEQ of the trade. The designated representatives of both the covered fuel supplier transferring the compliance instrument and the covered fuel supplier acquiring the compliance instrument must sign and submit a compliance instrument trade form that meets the requirements of this section, using a form approved by DEQ. 

 (a) The covered fuel supplier transferring one or more compliance instruments must sign first; and 

 (b) The covered fuel supplier acquiring the compliance instrument(s) must sign the same form and submit it to DEQ no later than one week after the transferring covered fuel supplier signs the form. 

 (c) All of the following must be included on a compliance instrument trade form: 

 (A) The agreed upon date of the trade. 

 (B) The total number of compliance instruments traded, and separately the total number traded from each calendar year’s cap. 

 (C) The total price per compliance instrument (in US dollars), excluding any fees. If a specific dollar value is not paid for the compliance instrument, an estimate must be provided. 

 (D) As applicable, other information about the trade that DEQ determines is necessary to support DEQ’s monitoring of trades and that DEQ includes on the form; 

 (E) The following information about the covered fuel supplier transferring the compliance instrument(s): 

 (i) Name and full mailing address of the covered fuel supplier. 

 (ii) Designated representative’s contact information including name, title or position, phone number, and email address. 

 (iii) The following attestation, signed by the designated representative: 

 
 I certify under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of Oregon that to the best of my knowledge and belief the information in this form is true, accurate, and complete. [Covered fuel supplier] is transferring these compliance instruments to [covered fuel supplier that is acquiring] for the price described in this form. 
 

 (F) The following information about the covered fuel supplier acquiring the compliance instrument(s): 

 (i) Name and full mailing address of the covered fuel supplier. 

 (i) Designated representative’s contact information including name, title or position, phone number, and email address. 

 (iii) The following attestation, signed by the designated representative: 

 
 I certify under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of Oregon that to the best of my knowledge and belief the information in this form is true, accurate, and complete. [Covered fuel supplier] is acquiring compliance instruments from [covered fuel supplier that is transferring] for the price described in this form. 
 

 (2) When DEQ receives a compliance instrument trade form for one or more compliance instruments as described in section (1), DEQ will inform the applicant either that the submitted form is complete or that additional specific information is required to make the form complete. Upon receipt of a complete form signed by both covered fuel suppliers involved in a trade, DEQ will track traded compliance instruments. DEQ will notify the designated representative of the covered fuel supplier acquiring compliance instrument(s) in writing of availability of these compliance instruments. DEQ will notify the designated representative of the covered fuel supplier transferring compliance instrument(s) in writing that the covered fuel supplier no longer holds the compliance instruments. If DEQ determines that the form is incomplete, DEQ will not track the requested trade unless and until the applicant provides the additional information requested by DEQ to make the form complete, and such instruments will not be available to the covered fuel supplier acquiring the instruments. 

 (3) A covered fuel supplier acquiring one or more compliance instrument(s) in a trade may not use the compliance instrument(s) in other trades or toward demonstration of compliance with any compliance obligation until the trade has been reported to DEQ and DEQ has tracked the traded compliance instrument(s). Trades may only be reported to DEQ after DEQ has made the compliance instrument trade form available. DEQ will notify covered fuel suppliers when the compliance instrument trade form is available. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020, 468A.025, 468A.040 & 468A.050 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468.020, 468A.025, 468A.040, 468A.050, 468.035, 468A.010, 468A.015 & 468A.045 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 27-2021, adopt filed 12/16/2021, effective 12/16/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
