



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 50 SCHOOL IMMUNIZATION RULES 
 333-050-0240 
 Immunization Requirements 
 
 (1) The following are required immunizations for children attending a school or children’s facility, along with the required number of doses for the child’s age or grade as described in the Primary Review Table, incorporated by reference and provided as an attachment at the end of this rule, unless a child has immunity documentation for certain diseases listed in OAR 333-050-0260, or a child has a medical or nonmedical exemption. 

 (a) Diphtheria/Tetanus/Pertussis containing vaccine (DTaP) — Five doses unless: 

 (A) The fourth dose was given on or after the fourth birthday, then only four doses are required. The fourth dose given within four days prior to the fourth birthday is acceptable; or 

 (B) The third dose was given on or after the seventh birthday, then only three doses are required. The third dose given within four days prior to the seventh birthday is acceptable. 

 (b) Tetanus/Diphtheria/Pertussis booster (Tdap) — One dose given on or after the seventh birthday. A dose given within four days prior to the seventh birthday is acceptable, 

 (c) Polio — Four doses unless: 

 (A) The third dose was given on or after the fourth birthday, then only three doses are required. The third dose given within four days prior to the fourth birthday is acceptable; or 

 (B) The child is 18 years of age or older. Polio vaccination at or after the 18th birthday is not required. 

 (d) Varicella — One dose given on or after the first birthday. A dose given within four days prior to the first birthday is acceptable, unless: 

 (A) The first dose was received at or after 13 years of age, in which case, two doses are required. 

 (B) If a second dose is required, the second dose must be received at least 24 days after first dose. 

 (e) Measles — Two doses given on or after the first birthday. A dose given within four days prior to the first birthday is acceptable. The second dose must be received at least 24 days after first dose. 

 (f) Mumps — One dose is required, given on or after the first birthday. A dose given within four days prior to the first birthday is acceptable. 

 (g) Rubella — One dose given on or after the first birthday. A dose given within four days prior to the first birthday is acceptable. 

 (h) Hepatitis B — Three doses unless: 

 (A) The first dose was given on or after the 11th birthday, and the second dose was given at least four months after the first dose, in which case only two doses are required. The first dose given within four days prior to the 11th birthday is acceptable; or 

 (B) The first dose was received at or after 18 years of age, in which case the student is complete with two doses. 

 (i) Hepatitis A — Two doses given on or after the first birthday. A dose given within four days prior to the first birthday is acceptable. 

 (j) Haemophilus influenzae Type b (Hib) — Up to four doses depending on the child's current age and when previous doses were administered. 

 (2) If there is a lapse of time between doses longer than that recommended by the standard described in the Primary Review Table in section (1) of this rule, the dose still counts for purposes of compliance with these rules. 

 (3) In situations where a child's immunization history makes it difficult to determine whether the child has received all of the required immunizations, the administrator must request that the local health department make a final determination of the child's immunization status. 

 
 
 
 
 
 [ED. NOTE: To view attachments referenced in rule text, click here for PDF copy.] 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 433.004 & ORS 433.273 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 433.001, ORS 433.004, ORS 433.006 & ORS 433.235 - 433.284 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 11-2025, adopt filed 05/02/2025, effective 05/02/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
