



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Corrections 
 Chapter 291 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 78 COMMUNITY CASE MANAGEMENT 
 291-078-0021 
 Minimum Contact Standards 
 
 (1) General: 

 (a) The location, frequency, and manner of reporting for purposes of supervision must be focused on client success while seeking to minimize disruptions to the life of the supervised person, avoid unnecessary hardships, and offer a broad array of reporting options. 

 (b) The frequency of measurable contacts with adults on supervision shall be determined by the associated supervision level in accordance with these rules. 

 (2) High Supervision: Adults on supervision with a high supervision level shall receive a minimum of three measurable contacts every 30 days. 

 (3) Medium Supervision: Adults on supervision with a medium supervision level shall receive a minimum of two measurable contacts every 30 days. 

 (4) Low Supervision: 

 (a) Adults on supervision with a low supervision level shall, at a minimum, be reviewed for any condition, action, or restitution requirement; receive quarterly communication regarding their progress towards achieving earned discharge; be reviewed prior to completing 50 percent of their supervision period for an earned discharge or a recommendation for early termination or bench probation, if applicable; and shall be contacted prior to the termination of their supervision for appropriate closure. 

 (b) Nothing in this rule prevents the supervisory authority from implementing a higher level of contact with low supervision level clients or from responding to the individual when they request support or assistance. 

 (5) Sexually Violent Dangerous Offenders (SVDO): An adult on supervision found to be a Sexually Violent Dangerous Offender (SVDO) shall be subject to intensive supervision for the full period of their parole and post-prison supervision. 

 (6) Manner and Location of Supervision Visits and Reporting Options (Measurable Contacts): The manner and location of supervision visits and reporting options for adults on supervision that are deemed measurable contacts include: 

 (a) Home Visits; 

 (b) Office Visits: When scheduling in-office contact, consideration should be given to the distance between the office and the individual’s approved housing, transportation challenges that may be present, documented medical concerns that make travel difficult, and the work schedule of the person on supervision; 

 (c) Employment Visits: 

 (A) Contacts at the place of employment for persons on supervision should be limited to cases where it is in the best interest of the individual’s rehabilitation or when there is cause in the interest of public safety to do so. 

 (B) When making contact at a person’s place of employment, efforts should be taken to reduce disruption to the business and protect the privacy of the person on supervision. This may include working with the supervised person or employer to identify an appropriate plan should workplace contact become necessary. 

 (C) Nothing in these rules prevents a person on supervision from requesting to be contacted at their place of employment when determined to be mutually beneficial for the person on supervision and their employer. 

 (D) Nothing in these rules prevents a parole and probation officer from patronizing businesses where persons on supervision are employed. Such encounters are not considered official contact. 

 (d) Field Visits; 

 (e) Virtual Visits; 

 (f) Telephone Visits; 

 (g) Electronic Visits; 

 (h) Contact at a Day Reporting Center; 

 (i) Contact at Court; 

 (j) Contact at Jail; 

 (k) Contact at a Treatment Program; 

 (l) Reach-ins at Jail; and 

 (m) Mail-in reporting for low-risk supervision as approved by the local supervisory authority. 

 (7) The local supervisory authority shall maintain the discretion to determine the manner and location of supervision visits and reporting options for adults on supervision within the standards established by the department in these rules. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 28-2026, amend filed 08/27/2026, effective 09/01/2026 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 4-2024, adopt filed 04/02/2024, effective 05/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
