



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 175 EMPLOYMENT RELATED DAY CARE PROGRAM 
 414-175-0090 
 Restored and Supplemental Benefits 
 
 (1)    Supplemental and restorative benefits are calculated and paid as follows: 
(a)    The effective date of the lost benefits is determined. 
(b)    The benefit group is not eligible for restored benefits in any month that eligibility for the benefits cannot be established. The benefit group has an opportunity to prove eligibility for any months in question. 
(c)    The correct benefits for the months in question are calculated. 
(d)    The amount the benefit group actually received is subtracted from the amount they should have received. 
(e)    The group with the largest number of people who were in the benefit group at the time the loss occurred is entitled to the restored benefit. If the location of that group is unknown, the benefit is restored to the benefit group containing the primary person at the time the loss occurred. 
(2)    An individual is entitled to a supplemental payment of benefits for the current month or restoration of benefits lost in a previous month if the individual received a lower benefit than the individual was entitled to for the reasons given in this rule. An individual may receive a restoration of lost benefits even if no longer eligible. 
(3)    An individual may receive a supplemental benefit if there was a change in the individual’s circumstances that would cause an increase in benefits, if the report of change was made before the first day of the benefit month but too late for the Department to adjust the next month's benefits. 
(4)    An individual may receive a supplemental or restorative benefit if the Department caused an administrative underpayment. An administrative underpayment includes, but is not limited to, an underpayment caused by any of the following: 
(a)    Failure to take action on information reported to the Department. 
(b)    Use of an incorrect effective date. 
(c)    Denial, closure or reduction of benefits in error. 
(d)    Failure to send the individual a required decision notice when benefits are closed or reduced. 
(e)    Making a calculation error. 
(5)      An individual is entitled to a restoration of lost benefits if: 
(a)    The restoration results from a final order in a contested case. 
(b)    The restoration results from a court order. 
(6)    An individual who moves from Oregon remains eligible for a restoration of benefits. 
(7)    Restoration of benefits is limited to the extent provided for in OAR 414-175-0070. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.500 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.500 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELD 11-2023, adopt filed 06/28/2023, effective 07/01/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
