



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 82 LAND USE ORDINANCE 
 350-082-0700 
 General Management Area Recreation Resources Review Criteria 
 
 (1) Recreation Intensity Class 1 (Very Low Intensity) 
(a) Social Setting: Visitors in this designation have a high chance of finding solitude and opportunities to experience activities that rely on self-reliance, challenge and risk. Encounters with other visitors is low throughout the designation. Perceived crowdedness is low to non-existent away from roads and recreation sites. Visitor encounters and perceived crowdedness is low to moderate at or near (within one mile) roads and recreation sites. 
(b) Physical and Managerial Setting: Predominately natural or natural appearing landscapes with rustic improvements characterize this designation. Nodes of developed recreation facilities are allowed. Developed recreation site regulations and controls (signing, regulations or other regimentation) are noticeable but harmonize with the natural environment. Away from developed recreation sites there is minimal or subtle control of users. 
(c) Trail development is simple and typically accommodate low use levels. Users are highly skilled with a high degree of orienteering skills. 
(d) The following uses may be permitted subject to compliance with 350-082-0720. 
(A) Parking areas, not to exceed a site-wide capacity of ten vehicles, when associated with any allowed uses in Recreation Intensity Class 1. Accommodations for mass transportation facilities should be considered where compatible with the social and physical settings. 
(B) Trails for hiking, equestrian, and mountain biking use. 
(C) Pathways for pedestrian and bicycling use. 
(D) Trailheads (with provisions for hitching rails and equestrian trailers at trailheads accommodating equestrian use). 
(E) Scenic viewpoints and overlooks. 
(F) Wildlife and botanical viewing and nature study areas. 
(G) River access areas. 
(H) Boat docks, piers, or wharfs. 
(I) Picnic areas. 
(J) Restrooms and comfort facilities. 
(2) Recreation Intensity Class 2 (Low Intensity) 
(a) Social Setting: RIC 2 is characterized by opportunities to experience relaxation, physical fitness and outdoor learning and where there is a moderate probability to experience solitude. Typically encounters with other visitors throughout the designation is Low to Moderate. Visitor encounters are low to moderate on trails and away from developed recreation sites and roads, and moderate to high near (within one mile) recreation sites and roads. 
(b) Physical and Managerial Setting: Predominately natural or natural appearing landscapes with rustic improvements characterize this designation. Nodes of highly developed recreation facilities may be allowed. Developed recreation site regulations and controls (signing, regulations or other regimentation) are noticeable but harmonize with the natural environment. Away from developed recreation sites there is minimal or subtle control of users. 
(c) Trails are moderately developed (native surface or gravel, trail bridges and other facilities are provided for user convenience). Trail use is typically low to moderate. Trails are suitable for a wide range of users and are challenging and involve intermediate to advance skills. 
(d) The following uses may be permitted subject to compliance with 350-082-0720. 
(A) All uses permitted in Recreation Intensity Class 1. 
(B) Parking areas, not to exceed a site-wide capacity of 25 vehicles, when associated with any allowed uses in Recreation Intensity Class 2. Parking spaces for campground units shall be included in this number. Accommodations for mass transportation facilities should be considered where compatible with the social and physical settings. 
(C) Boat ramps, not to exceed two lanes. 
(D) Campgrounds for 20 units or less, tent sites only. 
(3) Recreation Intensity Class 3 (Moderate Intensity) 
(a) Social Setting: A high degree of interaction with other visitors with opportunities to experience relaxation and activities that provide little challenge or risk in a natural appearing environment characterizes this designation. Visitor encounters are moderate to high on trails away from developed recreation sites and roads. 
(b) Physical and Managerial Setting: Changes to the natural landscape may be evident but in harmony with characteristics of the landscape setting. Highly developed recreation facilities and trails are constructed for visitor convenience. On-site regulation and controls are noticeable but harmonize with the natural characteristics of the landscape. 
(c) Trails typically accommodate moderate to high use and are well developed (native, gravel or paved surfaces, trail facilities such as bridges are provided for convenience). Trails are easily traveled by a wide range of users who have intermediate skill level and minimal orienteering skills. 
(d) The following uses may be permitted subject to compliance with 350-082-0720. 
(A) All uses permitted in Recreation Intensity Classes 1 and 2. 
(B) Parking areas, not to exceed a site-wide capacity of 75 vehicles, when associated with any allowed uses in Recreation Intensity Class 3. Parking spaces for campground units shall be included in this number. 
(C) Accommodation of facilities for mass transportation (bus parking, etc.) shall be required for all new Recreation Intensity Class 3 day-use recreation sites, and improvements to existing Class 3 day-use recreation sites where the improvement would increase the use of the site, except for sites predominantly devoted to boat access. The number and size of the mass transportation facilities shall reflect the physical capacity of the site. 
(D) Boat ramps, not to exceed three lanes. 
(E) Concessions stands consistent with the following: 
(i) Private concessions and other commercial uses at public recreation sites may be allowed pursuant to adopted policies of the public agency owning or managing the site. If a different agency manages the site, that agency’s policies shall apply, unless superseded by provisions of the owning agency’s policies. 
(ii) For commercial recreation sites and public recreation sites not owned or managed by a public park agency with adopted concession policies, the following policies shall apply: 
(I) Retail sales at campgrounds shall be limited to camping supplies for overnight guests in dedicated space within the registration or central office building. 
(II) Private concessions in permanent structures shall be limited to one structure per park site. Sales shall be limited to those items necessary for enjoyment and use of recreation opportunities at the site, including food and beverages and recreation equipment rental. 
(III) Mobile vendors may be permitted, subject to local government approvals. Local government review shall address solid waste disposal, visual impacts of signs, traffic circulation, and safety. Such uses shall be limited to the term of the recreation season, and sales shall be limited to food and beverages and recreation equipment rental. 
(F) Campgrounds for 50 individual units or less, for tents and recreational vehicles, with a total density of no more than ten units per acre (density to be measured based on total size of recreation facility and may include required buffer and setback areas). Class 3 campgrounds may also include one group campsite area, in addition to the allowed individual campground units or parking area maximums. 
(4) Recreation Intensity Class 4 (High Intensity) 
(a) Social Setting: This designation is characterized by highly developed facilities where there is little challenge or risk associated with being in the outdoors. There is a high degree of interaction with other visitors. Encounters are high in recreation sites, on roads and trails within in this designation. 
(b) Physical and Managerial Setting: Changes to the natural landscape may be evident but in harmony with characteristics of the landscape setting. Highly developed recreation facilities and trails are constructed for visitor convenience and ease of movement. On-site regulation and controls are noticeable but harmonize with the natural characteristics of the landscape. 
(c) The maximum site design capacity for parking areas shall not exceed 250 vehicles for any allowed uses in Recreation Intensity Class 4. Parking spaces for campground units are to be included in this number. 
(d) Trails are highly developed (gravel or paved surfaces, trail facilities such as bridges are provided for convenience) and accommodate heavy to intensive use. Users are typically inexperienced with little or no orienteering skills. Trails are easily traveled by a wide range of users. 
(e) The following uses may be permitted subject to compliance with 350-082-0720. 
(A) All uses permitted in Recreation Intensity Classes 1, 2, and 3. 
(B) Parking areas, not to exceed a site-wide capacity of 250 vehicles, when associated with any allowed uses in Recreation Intensity Class 4. Parking spaces for campground units shall be included in this number. 
(C) Accommodation of facilities for mass transportation (bus parking, etc.) shall be required for all new Recreation Intensity Class 4 day-use recreation sites and improvements to existing Class 4 day-use recreation sites where the improvement would increase the use of the site, except for sites predominantly devoted to boat access. The number and size of the mass transportation facilities shall reflect the physical capacity of the site. 
(D) Horseback riding stables and associated facilities. 
(E) Boat ramps. 
(F) Campgrounds for 175 individual units or less, for tents and recreational vehicles, with a total density of no more than ten units per acre (density to be measured based on total size of recreation facility and may include required buffer and setback areas). Class 4 campgrounds may also include up to three group campsite areas, in addition to allowed individual campsite units or parking area maximums. 
(5) Approval Criteria for Recreation Uses. All proposed recreation projects outside of Public or Commercial Recreation designations shall comply with the following: 
(a) Compliance with 350-082-0600 through 350-082-0720. 
(b) Cumulative effects of proposed recreation projects on landscape settings shall be based on the “compatible recreation use” guideline for the landscape setting in which the use is located. 
(c) For proposed recreation projects in or adjacent to lands designated Large-Scale Agriculture, Small-Scale Agriculture, Commercial Forest Land, Large Woodland, or Small Woodland: 
(A) The use would not seriously interfere with accepted forest or agricultural practices on surrounding lands devoted to forest or farm uses. Provision of on-site buffers may be used to partially or fully comply with this criterion, depending upon project design and site conditions. 
(B) A declaration has been signed by the project applicant or owner and recorded with county deeds and records specifying that the applicant or owner is aware that operators are entitled to carry on accepted forest or farm practices on lands designated Large-Scale Agriculture, Small-Scale Agriculture, Commercial Forest Land, Large Woodland, or Small Woodland. 
(d) For proposed projects including facilities for outdoor fires for cooking or other purposes, or for proposed campgrounds, compliance with the following: 
(A) The project applicant shall demonstrate that a sufficient quantity of water necessary for fire suppression (as determined pursuant to applicable fire codes or the county fire marshal) is readily available to the proposed facility, either through connection to a community water system or on-site wells, storage tanks, sumps, ponds or similar storage devices. If connection to a community water system is proposed, the project applicant shall demonstrate that the water system has adequate capacity to meet the facility’s emergency fire suppression needs without adversely affecting the remainder of the water system with respect to fire suppression capabilities. 
(B) To provide access for firefighting equipment, access drives shall be constructed to a minimum of 12 feet in width and a maximum grade of 12 percent. Access drives shall be maintained to a level that is passable to firefighting equipment. 
(e) For proposed trail or trailhead projects, compliance with the following: 
(A) Where applicable, new trails should incorporate existing segments of older or historic trails, abandoned roads and railroad rights-of-way, and other previously developed areas suitable for recreation use to the maximum extent practicable. 
(B) Trails that are intended for multiple user groups shall be required to post signs at trailheads alerting users that multiple user groups may be present on the trail. Trails shall be designed such that user conflicts and safety issues are minimized. 
(C) Applications for new trails or trailheads shall include measures to minimize the potential spread of noxious weeds. 
(D) Applications for new trails or trailheads shall consider the potential of fire risk during critical fire hazard periods in developing the physical and managerial setting of the site. 
(f) For proposed projects providing recreation access to the Columbia River or its tributaries, applicants shall demonstrate that the new facility is consistent with and does not affect or modify tribal treaty rights. 
(g) For proposed projects on public lands or proposed projects providing access to the Columbia River or its tributaries: compliance with the guidelines in 350-082-0130. 
(h) For proposed projects that include interpretation of natural or cultural resources: A demonstration that the interpretive facilities will not adversely affect natural or cultural resources and that appropriate and necessary resource protection measures shall be employed. 
(i) Applications for public recreation development in Recreation Intensity Classes 3 and 4 shall demonstrate how the proposed recreation development will be equitable and accessible (regardless of income level, ethnicity, gender, ability, or age). Applications for public recreation development in Recreation Intensity Classes 1 and 2 shall meet this standard to the maximum extent practicable. 
(j) Applications shall demonstrate compliance with the social, physical and managerial setting characteristics in the applicable Recreation Intensity Class description. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015 & 16 USC § 544e(c) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015 & 16 USC § 544e(c) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2022, adopt filed 03/02/2022, effective 05/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
