



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 29 STATE MEAT INSPECTION PROGRAM 
 603-029-1185 
 Heat-Processing and Stabilization Requirements for Uncured Meat Patties 
 
 (1) Definitions. For purposes of this rule, the following definitions shall apply: 

 (a) Patty. A shaped and formed, comminuted, flattened cake of meat product. 

 (b) Comminuted. A processing term describing the reduction in size of pieces of meat, including chopping, flaking, grinding, or mincing, but not including chunking or sectioning. 

 (c) Partially-cooked patties. Meat patties that have been heat processed for less time or using lower internal temperatures than are prescribed by subsection (2)(a) of this rule. 

 (d) Char-marked patties. Meat patties that have been marked by a heat source and that have been heat processed for less time or using lower internal temperatures than are prescribed by subsection (2)(a) of this rule. 

 (2) Heat-processing procedures for fully-cooked patties. 

 (a) State-inspected establishments which manufacture fully-cooked patties shall use one of the following heat-processing procedures: [Table 1, 603-029-1185] 

 (b) The state-inspected establishment shall measure the holding time and temperature of at least one fully-cooked patty from each production line each hour of production to assure control of the heat process. The temperature measuring device shall be accurate within 1 degree F. 

 (c) Requirements for handling heating deviations. 

 (A) If for any reason a heating deviation has occurred, the state-inspected establishment shall investigate and identify the cause; take steps to assure that the deviation will not recur; and place on file in the state-inspected establishment, available to any duly authorized Department employee, a report of the investigation, the cause of the deviation, and the steps taken to prevent recurrence. 

 (B) In addition, in the case of a heating deviation, the state-inspected establishment may reprocess the affected product, using one of the methods in subsection (2)(a) in this rule; use the affected product as an ingredient in another product processed to one of the temperature and time combinations in subsection (2)(a) in this rule, provided this does not violate the final product’s standard of composition, upset the order of predominance of ingredients, or perceptibly affect the normal product characteristics; or relabel the affected product as a partially-cooked patty product, if it meets the stabilization requirements in section (3) of this rule. 

 (3) Stabilization. (1) Fully cooked, partially cooked, and char-marked meat patties must be produced using processes ensuring no multiplication of toxigenic microorganisms such as Clostridium botulinum, and no more than a 1 log10 multiplication of Clostridium perfringens, within the product. 

 (b) For each meat patty product produced using a stabilization process other than one conducted in accordance with the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) system requirements in OAR 603-029-2200 to 603-029-2235, a state-inspected establishment must develop and have on file, available to the Department, a process schedule, as defined in OAR 603-029-0010. Each process schedule must be approved in writing by a process authority for safety and efficacy in meeting the performance standards established for the product in question. A process authority must have access to a state-inspected establishment in order to evaluate and approve the safety and efficacy of each process schedule. 

 (c) Under the auspices of a processing authority, a state-inspected establishment must validate new or altered process schedules by scientifically supportable means, such as information gleaned from the literature or by challenge studies conducted outside the plant. 

 (d) Partially cooked patties must bear the labeling statement “Partially cooked: For Safety Cook Until Well Done (Internal Meat Temperature 160 degrees F.).” The labeling statement must be adjacent to the product name, and prominently placed with such conspicuousness (as compared with other words, statements, designs or devices in the labeling) as to render it likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase and use. 

 (e) Char-marked patties must bear the labeling statement “Uncooked, Char-marked: For Safety, Cook Until Well Done (Internal Meat Temperature 160 degrees F.).” The labeling statement shall be adjacent to the product name, at least one-half the size of the largest letter in the product name, and prominently placed with such conspicuousness (as compared with other words, statements, designs or devices in the labeling) as to render it likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase and use. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 603.085, ORS 619.042 & ORS 619.046 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 619.042, ORS 619.046, ORS 619.026 & ORS 619.036 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 19-2022, adopt filed 07/27/2022, effective 07/28/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
