



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 360 CERTIFIED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-360-1200 
 Transportation and Field Trips 
 
 (1)    If a provider transports children, the provider must be in compliance with all applicable state laws, including current vehicle insurance that covers the driver, the vehicle, and all occupants. 
(2)    A provider must not transport children in vehicles or parts of vehicles not designed for transporting people, such as truck beds, campers, and trailers. 
(3)    When children are taken on field trips, a provider must ensure that: 
(a)    Caregivers check a written list of children on the field trip frequently to account for the presence of all children and: 
(A)    Prior to boarding and exiting the vehicle; and 
(B)    Any time the group changes locations on site (e.g. when moving from one exhibit to the next). 
(b)    When 6 or more children are taken on a field trip: 
(A)    Each child must wear an easily identifiable item, such as a label, shirt or wristband, listing the name and telephone number of the certified family child care; and 
(B)    Caregivers are easily identifiable. 
(4)    If firearms and ammunition are stored in the vehicle, they must be stored as specified in OAR 414-360-0840(11). 
(5)    If the driver is the only adult in the vehicle, a provider must ensure that the driver: 
(a)    Meets assistant II qualifications and training requirements (also see OAR 414-360-0340(3)); and 
(b)    Meets additional driver and ratio requirements under OAR 414-360-1200(6) and (7). 
(6)    A provider must ensure that drivers of a vehicle used to transport children: 
(a)    Are at least 18 years of age; 
(b)    Have a valid driver’s license appropriate for the type of vehicle driven; 
(c)    Do not have any medical condition or use alcohol, drugs, tobacco or any medication that could compromise driving, supervision, or evacuation abilities; 
(d)    Operate the vehicle in a legal and safe manner; and 
(e)    Eliminate distractions such as the use of earphones or cell phones. 
(7)    A provider must ensure that there are sufficient caregivers to meet the required caregiver-to-child ratios for children being transported. 
(a)    The driver may also count in caregiver-to-child ratios. 
(b)    One caregiver must be at least assistant II qualified (also see OAR 414-360-0340(3)). 
(8)    A provider may allow a parent to transport children other than the parent’s own children without a qualified caregiver present in the vehicle, only if the parent meets assistant II qualifications and transportation requirements as provided in these rules, and is enrolled in the CBR. 
(9)    A provider must never leave children unattended inside or outside of a vehicle. 
(10)    A provider must maintain the following items in the vehicle as well as at the home: 
(a)    An operable phone; 
(b)    Proof of vehicle insurance; 
(c)    Emergency medical information on each child including parents’ contact information, special medical needs, medications, allergies, the name and phone number of the child’s doctor, and emergency medical authorization forms; 
(d)    When transporting children with chronic medical conditions (such as asthma, diabetes, or seizures), their emergency care treatment plans, supplies and medication; and 
(e)    A first aid kit that is easily accessible to staff and not children, and with contents specified in OAR 414-360-1020(2), Injuries). 
(11)    A provider must ensure the following safety practices are followed: 
(a)    The vehicle doors are locked when the vehicle is moving and when not in use. 
(b)    The motor is turned off, the brake set, and the keys removed whenever the driver leaves the vehicle. 
(c)    No vehicle window, except that of the driver, must be opened to more than 50 percent of its capacity when children are on board. 
(d)    Children's entire bodies must remain in the vehicle. 
(e)    Safe conduct to and from the vehicles and safe off-street loading spaces must be provided. 
(A)    Children must be loaded and unloaded only at the curb or at an off-street area protected from traffic on the same side of the street as the building they will enter. 
(B)    If children must cross a street, they must be accompanied by an adult. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 138-2024, adopt filed 12/11/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
