



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 581-020-0715 
 Workforce Survey Administration and Reporting 
 
 (1) The Department of Education shall annually prepare and administer a web-based survey of the members of the education workforce. The department shall: 

 (a) Prepare and maintain a survey tool based on research-based best practices and the needs of members of the education workforce of this state. 

 (b) Identify an administration period for the survey, during which the department will make available the web-based survey to public education providers for dissemination to members of the education workforce actively employed by or under contract to provide services to the public education provider during the survey window. 

 (c) Identify any minimum participation requirements or suppression rules for survey results to be reported in order to protect respondent anonymity. 

 (d) Consult relevant advisory groups on topics identified in this section, which may include but is not limited to survey content, item type, response category options, questionnaire length, delivery methods, administration window, language translation, accessibility tools and supports, data visualization, and public reporting and dissemination. 

 (e) Collaborate with the Educator Advancement Council when making any changes to survey standards adopted by the State Board of Education. 

 (f) Disseminate information to public education providers, which may include but is not limited to survey access, timelines, purpose, and content as well as guidance concerning survey administration best practices, appropriate use of survey results, and the protection of survey respondent confidentiality and anonymity. 

 (2) Prior to and during the survey period, each public education provider shall encourage members of their education workforce to participate in the survey by distributing to individual members information provided by the Department of Education. 

 (3) During the survey period, each public education provider shall ensure that members of their education workforce have the opportunity to participate in the survey by: 

 (a) Emailing the web-based survey link(s) to their education workforce members at least twice during the survey period; and 

 (b) Connecting their education workforce members to the Department of Education regarding questions about the survey and accessibility needs. 

 (4) The Department of Education shall annually: 

 (a) Review the survey results. 

 (b) Prepare an interactive data visualization tool that provides access to aggregated and suppressed survey results at multiple levels, such as schools and districts, while maintaining confidentiality and anonymity of survey respondents. 

 (c) Disseminate aggregated and suppressed survey results to public education providers. 

 (d) Submit a report on education workforce satisfaction to the interim committees of the Legislative Assembly related to education. 

 (5) The Department of Education may enter into a contract or a partnership with any public or private entity, including the federal government, for the purpose of this section. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  SB 283 (2023) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  SB 283 (2023) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 10-2025, minor correction filed 02/14/2025, effective 02/14/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 4-2025, adopt filed 02/07/2025, effective 02/07/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
