



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Revenue 
 Chapter 150 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 323 CIGARETTE TAXES 
 150-323-0230 
 Refund Value of Stamps on Unsalable and Misstamped Cigarette Packages and Cartons 
 
 (1) Refund provisions of the cigarette tax act apply only to duly licensed Oregon cigarette distributors. Unsalable stamped cigarettes may include product no longer approved for sale in Oregon, stale product, or product inventory of a closed business. Refund certification appointments are scheduled at the discretion of the department. Misuse of this provision may cause license revocation. Cigarette stamp refunds outside of Oregon must be certified by an appointed representative of the department. A refund equal to the face value, less the discount allowed, on identifiable stamps affixed to unsalable packages of cigarettes may be obtained as follows:  (2) Unsalable stamped cigarette packages re-stamped for sale outside Oregon. An appointment for refund certification must be made with the department. A department representative will cancel the Oregon indicia in such a manner as to permanently identify the packages. Indicia from the state into which those packages will be sold must be affixed to the packages during the certification appointment. The request for refund must be sent to the department and be accompanied by the properly executed certification completed by the department.  (3) Unsalable stamped cigarette packages to be sold outside Oregon. An appointment for refund certification must be made with the department. A department representative will cancel the Oregon indicia in such a manner as to permanently identify the packages. The request for refund must be sent to the department and be accompanied by a copy of the shipping document used to send the cigarettes to the purchasing party, and any other proof of the cigarettes not being used for smoking in the State of Oregon.  (4) Unsalable stamped cigarette packages to be destroyed. An appointment for refund certification must be made with the department. A department representative will cancel the Oregon indicia in such a manner as to permanently identify the packages. Packages of cigarettes must be destroyed during the certification appointment and in the presence of an appointed representative of the department. The request for refund must be sent to the department and be accompanied by the properly executed certification completed by the department.  (5) Unsalable stamped cigarette packages returned to the manufacturer. The claim for refund must be sent to the department on a form supplied by the department and be accompanied by a properly executed manufacturer's statement of returned cigarettes and a copy of the shipping document used to return the cigarettes to the manufacturers.  (6) Misstamped cigarette packages, where at least fifty percent of a stamp is affixed to a cigarette package. An appointment for refund certification must be made with the department. A department representative will cancel the partial indicia inadvertently affixed to packages of cigarettes in a manner as to permanently identify the packages. Indicia from the state into which those packages will be sold must be affixed to the packages during the certification appointment. The request for refund must be sent to the department and be accompanied by the properly executed certification completed by the department.  (7) Misstamped cigarette packages, where more than one stamp is affixed to a cigarette package. An appointment for refund certification must be made with the department. A department representative will cancel the duplicated indicia inadvertently affixed to packages of cigarettes in a manner as to permanently identify the packages. The request for refund must be sent to the department and be accompanied by the properly executed certification completed by the department.  (8) Misstamped, where stamps are affixed to packaging. The request for refund must be sent to the department and be accompanied by the packaging to which indicia was inadvertently affixed. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 305.100 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 323.320 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 150-323.320-(C), REV 72-2016, f. 8-15-16, cert. ef. 9-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 Renumbered from 150-323.320(2), REV 5-2008, f. 8-29-08 
REV 6-1999, f. 12-1-99, cert. ef. 12-31-99 
RD 8-1984, f. 12-5-84, cert. ef. 12-31-84 
12-19-75 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
