



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 360 CERTIFIED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-360-0130 
 Application Process 
 
 (1)    An applicant must submit an original and complete application for certification on the forms provided by CCLD:  
(a)    For the initial certification;  
(b)    For the renewal of the certification;    
(c)    Whenever there is a change of provider or location; or  
(d)    For an increase in capacity.  
(2)    An applicant that is not the owner of the certified family child care home must identify the owner on the application.   
(3)    An applicant must submit a non-refundable filing fee with the application.  
(a)    For a certified family child care the fee is $25 plus $2 for each certified space. For example, the fee for a certified family child care to care for 14 children is $25 + $28= $53. This fee is required with:   
(A)    Initial application;   
(B)    Re-opening of a certificate after a lapse in certification;   
(C)    A change of provider; or   
(D)    A change of location.  
(b)    For a certified family child care, only the fee of $2 for each licensed capacity space is required with:  
(A)    Renewal application; or  
(B)    An increase in capacity. The fee only applies to the number of licensed capacity spaces over the existing capacity. 
(4)    A certified family child care must complete and submit an application to CCLD at least:  
(a)    45 days before the planned opening date of a new certified family child care or change of location; and  
(b)    30 days prior to the expiration of the certification for a renewal.  
(A)    If an application for renewal and payment of the required fee is received at least 30 days prior to the expiration date of the current certificate, the current certificate, unless officially revoked, remains in force until CCLD has acted on the application for renewal and has given notice of the action taken.  
(B)    If an application for renewal and payment of the required fee is not received at least 30 days prior to the expiration date of the current certificate, the certificate will expire and the certified family child care must cease operations unless the renewal is completed prior to the expiration date.  
(5)    An applicant must provide the following items with the application for an initial certification, change of address and when the home indoor floor plan changes :  
(a)    Approval by an environmental health specialist registered under ORS chapter 700 or an authorized representative of the Oregon Health Authority;  
(b)    A floor plan, including dimensions (length and width) of all rooms to be used, the planned use of each room, the locations of required exits, and the placement of the kitchen and bathrooms ;   
(c)    Initial or current lead testing results for each source of drinking water, as required in OAR 414-360-0820; and 
(d)    Verification that the provider has met the initial training and orientation listed in OAR 414-360-0370(1). 
(6)    An application for renewal of a certified family child care may be approved by CCLD upon CCLD’s receipt of the following:  
(a)    CCLD’s Health and Safety inspection completed successfully with CCLD staff; and 
(b)    Written approval by an environmental health specialist registered under ORS chapter 700 or an authorized representative of the Oregon Health Authority;  
(7)    An applicant must pay in full all civil penalties established by final order against the applicant or be compliant with an CCLD approved payment plan before CCLD will process an initial or renewal application.  
(8)    If CCLD has not approved, issued a notice of intent to deny, or issued a final order by default or after a contested case hearing denying an application within 12 months of the date the application was submitted to CCLD, the application may be closed, subject to the applicant’s right to submit a new application at any time. This rule does not apply if:   
(a)    The application is a timely renewal application; or  
(b)    CCLD has issued a notice of intent to deny the application that has not resulted in a final order or withdrawal.  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280, ORS 329A.270 & ORS 329A.310 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 138-2024, adopt filed 12/11/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
