



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 82 LAND USE ORDINANCE 
 350-082-0160 
 Expiration of National Scenic Area Approvals 
 
 (1) Notice Not Required: Expiration of any Executive Director decision issued pursuant to this land use ordinance is automatic. The Executive Director does not notify applicants or landowners of decisions that are expired or may be close to expiring. 
(2) National Scenic Area Approvals without Structures: An Executive Director’s decision for a use or development that does not include a structure shall expire two years after the date the approval was granted, unless the use or development was established according to all specifications and conditions of approval in the approval. For land divisions, “established” means the final deed or plat has been recorded with the county recorder or auditor. 
(3) National Scenic Area Approvals with Structures: An Executive Director’s decision for a use or development that includes a structure shall expire as follows: 
(a) When construction has not commenced within two years of the date the approval was granted; or  
(b) When the structure has not been completed within two years of the date of commencement of construction. 
(4) Commencement of Construction: As used in subsection (3)(a) above, commencement of construction means construction of the foundation or frame of the approved structure. For utilities and development without a frame or foundation, commencement of construction means construction of support structures for an approved above ground utility or development or actual excavation of trenches for an approved underground utility or development. For roads, commencement of construction means grading of the roadway. 
(5) Completion of Structure: As used in subsection (3)(b) above, completion of the structure means completion of the exterior surface(s) of the structure and compliance with all conditions of approval in the National Scenic Area approval. 
(6) Extension of Validity of National Scenic Area Approvals: A request for extension of the time frame in section (2) or (3) above, shall be submitted in writing before the applicable expiration date. 
(a) The Executive Director may grant one 12-month extension to the validity of a National Scenic Area approval if they determine that events beyond the control of the applicant prevented commencement of the use or development (applicable to section (2) above) or commencement of construction (applicable to subsection (3)(a) above) within the original two-year time frame. 
(b) The Executive Director may also grant one 12-month extension if they determine that events beyond the control of the applicant prevented completion of the structure (applicable to subsection (3)(b) above) within the original two-year time frame. 
(c) The extension is good for 12 months from the date of the original expiration (not the date the extension was requested or granted and not the commencement of construction, or any other date or milestone). 
(d) A request for extension shall state the reason why events beyond the control of the applicant warrant an extension. 
(e) Approval or denial of a request for extension shall be considered an administrative decision. 
(7) Vested Rights: The laws of the states of Oregon and Washington concerning vested rights shall not apply in the National Scenic Area. A person has a vested right for as long as the National Scenic Area approval does not expire. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015, 16 USC § 544e(c) & 16 USC § 544f(l) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015, 16 USC § 544e(c) & 16 USC § 544f(l) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2022, adopt filed 03/02/2022, effective 05/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
