



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Board of Accountancy 
 Chapter 801 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 FEES, APPLICATIONS, REQUIREMENTS, PROCEDURES, AND P.C.’S 
 801-010-0119 
 Retired Licensee Status 
 
 (1) An Oregon CPA or PA licensee that is not expired, revoked or suspended can apply for retired status when that licensee has held an active CPA or PA license in good standing for a combined period of not less than 20 years. 

 (2) A Retired Licensee cannot: 

 (a) Practice public accountancy; or 

 (b) Hold an ownership interest in a registered CPA or PA firm. 

 (3) A Retired Licensee can: 

 (a) Volunteer or provide pro bono tax services so long as there is no compensation or remuneration of any kind offered or paid; or 

 (b) Be employed by a public accounting firm, performing any work that someone without a CPA or PA license is entitled to perform in a public accounting firm. The work of a retired licensee must be supervised by an active Oregon licensee. 

 (4) Application for Retired Status : 

 (a) An application for retired status must be made on a form provided by the Board and must be accompanied by a fee prescribed by OAR 801-010-0010. 

 (b) An applicant for retired status must hold at the time of application an Oregon CPA or PA license that is not expired, revoked or suspended. 

 (c) An applicant for retired status must provide sufficient evidence to the Board that the applicant has held an active CPA or PA license in good standing for a combination of 20 years. 

 (d) If an applicant for retired status works for a CPA firm, PA firm or Sole Practitioner the applicant must: 

 (A) Certify to the Board that the retired status licensee does not perform any work that someone without a CPA or PA license is not entitled to perform in a public accounting firm; and 

 (B) Provide the name, contact information and license number of the Oregon active licensee supervising the retired status licensee. 

 (5) Renewal Requirements . A licensee granted retired status must renew in accordance with OAR 801-010-0110 and if working in a CPA firm, PA firm or for a Sole Practitioner, certify on the renewal form: 

 (a) That they have not preformed any work that someone without a CPA or PA license is not entitled to perform in a public accounting firm; and 

 (b) Provide the name, contact information and license number of the Oregon active licensee supervising the retired status licensee. 

 (6) CPE . Retired licensees are not required to obtain or report CPE. 

 (7) Retired Licensees Use of CPA or PA Designation. A licensee who is granted retired status cannot use the CPA or PA designation unless the word “Retired” is used in conjunction with designation, such as “CPA Retired,” and the term retired is listed in the same font size as CPA or PA. 

 (8) Reinstatement . A licensee in retired status will be permitted to reinstate to retired, active or inactive status in accordance with the provisions in OAR 801-010-0130. 

 (9) Reporting Requirements . In addition to any other reporting requirements required for licensees, retired licensees must notify the Board within thirty days of: 

 (a) Initiating employment with a CPA firm, PA firm or Sole Practitioner; 

 (b) Any changes of employment with a CPA firm, PA firm or Sole Practitioner; or 

 (c) Any changes with the Oregon active licensee supervising the retired licensee. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 673.150 & ORS 673.220 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 673.410 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BOA 1-2026, adopt filed 01/29/2026, effective 02/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
