



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 DELEGATION OF PROGRAMS TO LOCAL JURISDICTIONS 
 918-020-0250 
 Local Boards 
 
 (1) Use of Local Boards. 

 (a) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b) and (c) of this section, a municipality that procures services from a contract building official must establish a local board to which a permit applicant may appeal a contract building official’s discretionary decisions. 

 (b) A city does not need to establish a local board if the county within which the city is located, or an adjacent county, has a local board that hears, in accordance with this rule, all appeals of the discretionary decisions of the city’s contract building official. 

 (c) A county does not need to establish a local board if an adjacent county has a local board that hears, in accordance with this rule, all appeals of the discretionary decisions of the county’s contract building official or the discretionary decisions of all contract building officials for cities located within the county. 

 (d) Agreements. 

 (A) A city may enter into an agreement with the county within which the city is located, or an adjacent county, to hear appeals in accordance with this rule. 

 (B) A county may enter into an agreement with an adjacent county to hear appeals in accordance with this rule. 

 (2) Membership of Local Boards. 

 (a) If a city establishes a local board under section (1)(a) of this rule, the city must include as a member the building official of the county within which the city is located or the building official of an adjacent county. 

 (b) If a county establishes a local board under section (1)(a) of this rule, the county must include as a member a building official from an adjacent county. 

 (c) A local board described in section (1)(a) of this rule may not include as a member: 

 (A) Any contract building official; or 

 (B) An owner, manager, director, officer or employee of a person, other than an employee of the municipality, that performs building inspections. 

 (d) An individual who engages in the business of building design or construction may be a member of the local board, but may not hear an appeal of a contract building official’s discretionary decision concerning a project that involves a business, or competitor of a business, that: 

 (A) The individual owns or manages or for which the individual provides services as an employee, agent or contractor; or 

 (B) A family member or a member of the individual’s householder owns or manages or for which the family member or member of the household provides services as an employee, agent or contractor. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  2021 Oregon Laws Ch. 599, Sec. 2 (Enrolled SB 866) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  2021 Oregon Laws Ch. 599, Sec. 2 (Enrolled SB 866) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 12-2021, adopt filed 11/18/2021, effective 01/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
