



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 OPEN MEETINGS 
 350-011-0040 
 Public Notice Required; Special Notice for Executive Sessions 
 
 (1) The Gorge Commission shall provide the time for holding regular meetings by rule or bylaw. 

 (2) Notices in the Washington State Register and on Oregon’s website for state agency meeting notices: 

 (a) The Gorge Commission shall file with the Code Reviser in Washington a schedule of the time and place of regular meetings as provided by rule or bylaw on or before January of each year for publication in the Washington State Register. 

 (b) The Gorge Commission shall post an annual notice of its regular meetings as provided by rule or bylaw on the Oregon website for state agency meetings notices, provided that the State of Oregon maintains such a website and authorizes the Gorge Commission to post an annual notice. 

 (c) The Gorge Commission’s notices in this section shall direct persons to the Gorge Commission’s website for changes to the date, starting time, and location of regular meetings, for agendas and meeting materials, and for notices of cancellation of regular meetings. 

 (3) The Gorge Commission shall give public notice, reasonably calculated to give actual notice to interested persons, including news media which have requested notice, of the time and place for holding regular meetings. The notice shall also include an agenda containing the principal subjects anticipated to be considered at the meeting, but this requirement shall not limit the ability of the Gorge Commission to consider additional subjects or remove listed subjects from consideration. 

 (a) The Gorge Commission shall make the agenda of each regular meeting available on its website no later than 24 hours in advance of the published start time of the meeting. 

 (b) Nothing in this section modifies notice requirements or shall be construed as establishing that the Gorge Commission’s posting of an agenda as required by this section is sufficient notice to satisfy public notice requirements established under other laws. 

 (4) If an executive session only will be held, the notice shall be given to the members of the Gorge Commission, the general public and to news media which have requested notice, stating the specific provision of law authorizing the executive session. 

 (5) The Gorge Commission shall not adopt any ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, order, or directive except in a meeting open to the public and then only at a meeting, the date of which is fixed by law or rule, or at a meeting of which notice has been given according to the provisions of this division. 

 (6) The Gorge Commission may adjourn or continue a meeting to a time and place specified in an order of adjournment or continuance. Written notice of the adjournment or continuance shall be provided in accordance with section (3) of this rule. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015 & 16 U.S.C. 544c(b) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015 & 16 U.S.C. 544c(b) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2026, adopt filed 07/22/2026, effective 09/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
