



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 245 PERSONNEL SERVICE LICENSES 
 584-245-0310 
 School Social Worker License 
 
 (1) Purpose of the License: The School Social Worker License qualifies its holder to provide counseling support services in Oregon schools. The School Social Worker License is issued to new school social workers who have: sufficient personal qualifications, successfully completed a master’s program, and completed a qualifying school social worker program, or who have entered the state as a licensed Social Worker. The School Social Worker license signifies that the licensee is a school social worker who has not acquired the advanced competencies and experience to qualify for a Professional School Social Worker License. 

 (2) Term of Licensure: The School Social Worker is valid for three years and is renewable as provided in section (5) of this rule. The first license will be issued for three years plus time to the applicant's birthday. 

 (3) Assignments: The School Social Worker License is valid for: 

 (a) School social work at all age or grade levels; and 

 (b) Substitute counseling at any level. 

 (4) Applying for License: To be eligible to apply for a School Social Worker License, an applicant must: 

 (a) Possess the personal qualifications for licensure, including attainment of at least eighteen years of age; possessing good moral character; and the mental and physical health necessary for employment as an educator 

 (b) Hold a master’s degree or higher from an Approved Institution in the United States, or the foreign equivalent of such degree approved by the Commission; 

 (c) Complete a School Social Worker License Preparation Program. 

 (A) Completers of Oregon Programs: Provide evidence of admission to and completion of a Commission-approved School Social Worker License preparation program; or 

 (B) Completers of Out-of-State Programs: Provide evidence of: 

 (i)  Completion of an approved out-of-state school social worker program; 

 (ii) An active and valid non-provisional school social worker license from a NASDTEC jurisdiction; and 

 (iii) Meet the requirements for knowledge of U.S. and Oregon civil rights laws and professional ethics. 

 (C) Verification of Equivalency and Program Completion provided by an Oregon-approved program. 

 (d) Complete a background clearance that includes: 

 (A) Furnishing fingerprints, as required by ORS 342.223; 

 (B) Providing satisfactory responses to character questions in the form and manner prescribed by the Commission; and 

 (e) Submit a complete and correct application in the form and manner required by the Commission, including payment of all required fees as provided in 584-200-0050. 

 (5) Renewal:   To be eligible to apply for renewal of the School Social Worker License, the applicant must: 

 (a) Complete professional development requirements in accordance with OAR 584-255-0010; and 

 (b) Report on completion of any continuing education regarding suicide risk assessment, treatment and management; 

 (c) Submit a complete and correct renewal application in the form and manner required by the Commission, including payment of all required fees as provided in 584-200-0050. 

 (6) Persons holding a School Social Worker License may not: 

 (a) Substitute as a School Counselor for a period greater than three consecutive months without obtaining the School Counselor License; 

 (b) Substitute as a School Psychologist; or 

 (c) Accept any full or part-time position as a School Counselor or as a School Psychologist; or 

 (d) Go by the title of School Counselor or School Psychologist. 

 (7) Violations of section (6) above may result in referral to the Commission for violation of professional practices. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342.165 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.125, ORS 342.136, ORS 342.138 & ORS 342.165 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 18-2021, adopt filed 11/15/2021, effective 01/03/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
