



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
   Temporary rule language in effect until 10/19/2026. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 149 GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO PUBLIC CONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION SERVICES 
 736-149-0340 
 Late Submission of Bids or Proposals, Modifications and Withdrawal 
 
 (1) Late Submission: 

 (a) Any Offer in response to a solicitation document received after closing is late. An offeror’s request for withdrawal or modification of an offer in response to a solicitation document received after closing is late. The department shall not consider withdrawals submitted after closing. 

 (b) An Offer, withdrawal or modification will be considered received by the department as of the date and time affixed to the Offer, withdrawal, or modification, or recorded by the electronic procurement system utilized for submission of the Offer, withdrawal, or modification.  

 (2) Bids and Proposals - Modification or Withdrawal: 

 (a) Before Closing: An offeror may modify or withdraw its bid or proposal before closing by submitting a written bid or proposal modification or withdrawal notice to the department that includes the signature of offeror’s authorized representative acknowledging the modification or withdrawal. The signature of offeror’s authorized representative may be either electronic or handwritten. The last offer received by department before closing will supersede all previous offers. 

 (b) After Closing: The department may permit an offeror to withdraw an offer after closing based on one or more errors in the offer. The offeror provides a detailed written description of the error to the department demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the designated procurement officer, the following conditions: 

 (A) Minor Informality: The error is not a minor informality. 

 (B) Good Faith: The offeror acted in good faith and without gross negligence in submitting an offer to the department that contained the error and in claiming that error exists; 

 (C) Substantial Detriment: The offeror will suffer substantial detriment if the department does not permit the offeror to withdraw the offer; 

 (D) Non-Reliance of the department: The department has not relied upon the offer to the department’s detriment such that permitting the offeror to withdraw the offer will cause substantial hardship on the department; and 

 (E) Prompt Notice: The offeror promptly gave notice of the claimed error to the department. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279.025(3)(k) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279.025(3)(k) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 2-2026, temporary adopt filed 04/23/2026, effective 04/24/2026 through 10/19/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
