



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 360 CERTIFIED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-360-0850 
 Maintenance and Sanitation 
 
 (1)    The certified family child care home and grounds shall be kept clean and free of litter or rubbish and unused or inoperable equipment, and vehicles.  
(2)    Unused appliances, such as old refrigerators or freezers, that present a risk for entrapment, must be secured so as to prevent entry. 
(3)    A provider must keep all garbage and bodily fluids waste in non-absorbent, easily washable containers with tight-fitting lids.  
(a)    Garbage and waste must be removed from the premises at least once a week.  
(b)    Non-food, non-hazardous items and items that do not cause offensive odors, such as paper towels, may be disposed of separately from garbage and waste inside the home, in an uncovered container.  
(c)    Garbage and waste containers and outdoor storage areas must be kept clean and minimize the presence of rodents, flies, roaches and other vermin.  
(d)    Outdoor garbage storage must be inaccessible to children.   
(4)    A provider must maintain the building, equipment, and vehicles in good repair, in a clean and sanitary condition.  
(a)    Floors, walls, ceilings and fixtures of all rooms must be kept clean and in good repair.  
(b)    Surfaces and objects that are frequently touched must be routinely cleaned, sanitized and disinfected.  
(c)    The kitchen and bathrooms used for child care must be cleaned and sanitized or disinfected as needed and at least daily.  
(5)    All toys, equipment and furniture used by children must be cleaned, rinsed and sanitized regularly and whenever soiled.  
(a)    Water tables, similar containers, and water toys must be emptied and sanitized daily or more often if necessary.  
(b)    Bedding must be cleaned at least weekly, or more often if soiled and before use by another child  
(c)    Mats and cots must be cleaned and sanitized at least once a week, or more often when soiled and before use by another child.  
(6)    A provider must keep cloths, both single use and multiple use, used for wiping food spills on utensils and food-contact surfaces clean and use them for no other purpose. Cloths that are reused must be stored in a sanitizing solution between uses and disposed of or laundered daily.   
(7)    A provider must immediately clean up any spills of bodily fluids, such as urine, feces, blood, and vomit as follows:  
(a)    Caregivers must use disposable, nonporous gloves when handling bodily fluids;  
(b)    Surfaces must be cleaned and disinfected;  
(c)    Blood-contaminated material must be disposed of in a tied or sealed plastic bag and discarded immediately;  
(d)    Gloves must be removed immediately after use, placed in a tied, sealed, or otherwise closed plastic bag and discarded immediately; and  
(e)    Hands must be washed after using and disposing of the gloves.  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 138-2024, adopt filed 12/11/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
