



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Business Development Department 
 Chapter 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 300 COMMUNITY LENDER LOAN LOSS ACCOUNT PROGRAM 
 123-300-1401 
 Reporting 
 
 (1) No later than July 31 of each year, a lender shall, during the term of an Agreement, provide an annual report to, and in a form prescribed by the Department, for the period beginning July 1 of the immediate proceeding year and ending on June 30 of the current year. 

 (2) The annual report shall include, but is not limited to, the following information in a form or format prescribed by the Department: 

 (a) The annual and cumulative number and principal amount of all Enrolled Loans made by the lender. 

 (b) The current principal balance of each Qualified Loan enrolled in the Program. 

 (c) For each Enrolled Loan, the following information: 

 (A) The amount of the project; 

 (B) The term and amortization of the loan; 

 (C) The purpose of the loan; and, 

 (D) The source and amount of other capital in the project. 

 (d) The number of loans that were declined, the amounts of the declined loans and the primary reasons for the declines. 

 (e) The number and amount of non-performing Enrolled Loans. 

 (f) Any other information required in the reporting form by the Department. 

 (3) With respect to Qualified Borrowers or Qualified Businesses, the annual report shall include, but may not be limited to: 

 (a) The NAICS code of the operating entity. 

 (b) The primary city and county in which the operating entity conducts business. 

 (c) The city and county in which the loan proceeds were used. 

 (d) Annual income of the Business. 

 (e) Voluntarily reported demographic data as prescribed by the Department, i ncluding, but not limited to, whether a Qualified Business is owned by a woman, a minority individual, a veteran of any branch of the Armed Forces of the United States, the National Guard or other reserve component, a low-income person or a person operating the business in a rural area of this state . 

 (f) The Business Identification Number provided by the Oregon Employment Department and the corresponding: 

 (A) Number of individuals employed by the Qualified Borrower or the Qualified Business at the time of application; and, 

 (B) The number of fulltime jobs projected by the Qualified Borrower or Qualified Business to be created and/or retained as a result of the Enrolled Loan. 

 (g) The principal balance of each Enrolled Loan that was delinquent during the reporting period. 

 (h) The principal balance of each Enrolled Loan that is/was in default during the reporting period. 

 (i) The number and amount of Claims submitted. 

 (j) The number and amount of Claims approved by the Department. 

 (k) The amount of recoveries received subsequent to payment of a Claim from the Loan Loss Reserve Account. 

 (4) With respect to the lender, the annual report shall include, but may not be limited to: 

 (a) An annual financial report of the lender. 

 (b) A copy of the last fiscal year audit of the lender. 

 (c) A summary of outreach conducted by the lender to SEDIs and SEDI-owned businesses. 

 (d) A summary of all referrals made to other federal, state, regional or local capital and/or technical assistance providers. 

 (e) A summary of all projects co-funded with other federal, state, regional or local capital and/or technical assistance providers. 

 (f) A summary of business lending activity within Oregon not enrolled in the Program including aggregately reported demographic data voluntarily provided by the recipients. 

 (5) A final report is due to the Department the earlier of 45 days after the termination of the Agreement, the Agreement maturity date, the lender’s notice of withdrawal from the Program or July 31, 2033.  The final report shall be submitted in a form acceptable to the Department and shall include, but may not be limited to: 

 (a) The total number and total dollar amount of Enrolled Loans; 

 (b) The average interest rate, term and amount of Enrolled Loans; 

 (c) The cities and counties in which Borrowers primarily used the loan proceeds; 

 (d) The total number and total dollar amount of approved Claims; 

 (e) The aggregate performance of Enrolled Loans; and 

 (f) The aggregate demographic data for Enrolled Loans. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 285A.075 & ORS 285B.780 - ORS 285B.799 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 285B.780 - ORS 285B.799 & ORS 706.008 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 9-2023, adopt filed 06/13/2023, effective 06/13/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
