



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Public Transportation Division - Chapter 732 
 
 
 
 
 Division 42 STATEWIDE TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FUND - FORMULA 
 732-042-0055 
 Contractor Compliance 
 
 (1) A Qualified Entity shall determine whether an entity with which it enters into an agreement to pass through STIF funds is a Sub-Recipient or a contractor according to the criteria set forth in this rule. 

 (2) A person or entity that receives STIF Formula funds from the Qualified Entity is a contractor if the person or entity's relationship with the Qualified Entity possesses characteristics of a procurement relationship. Characteristics of a procurement relationship may include, but are not limited to, that the person or entity: 

 (a) Provides the goods and services within normal business operations; 

 (b) Provides similar goods or services to many different purchasers; 

 (c) Normally operates in a competitive environment; 

 (d) Provides goods or services that are ancillary to the implementation of the STIF program; 

 (e) Is not subject to compliance requirements of a state program as a result of the agreement. However, similar requirements may apply for other reasons; 

 (f) Is expected to deliver a limited service in conformity with the terms of its contract with the Recipient. 

 (3) The Agency may review a Qualified Entity’s determination that an entity is a contractor during the Agency's compliance site review of the Qualified Entity. If the Agency determines that an entity should have been classified as a Sub-Recipient rather than a contractor, the Qualified Entity shall alter its determination. 

 (a) If the entity that should have been classified as a Sub-Recipient has an agreement to receive STIF funds for a Project in a STIF Plan with an effective date on or after July 1, 2027, then the Qualified Entity must conduct a review of the entity pursuant to OAR 732-042-0050. The Agency may also issue a compliance finding or exercise remedies under the STIF Plan agreement with the Qualified Entity if necessary. 

 (b) If the entity that should have been classified as a Sub-Recipient has an agreement to receive STIF funds for a Project in a STIF Plan with an effective date prior to July 1, 2027, then the Qualified Entity must follow the Sub-Recipient Accountability procedures included in its STIF Plan pursuant to OAR 732-042-0015(2)(h) for the entity. The Agency may also issue a compliance finding or exercise remedies under the STIF Plan agreement with the Qualified Entity if necessary. 

 (4) A Qualified Entity is responsible for ensuring that a contractor’s use of STIF funds conforms with all relevant rules, statutes, and the terms of its agreement with the contractor. 

 (5) A Qualified Entity shall include provisions in its contract requiring that a contractor permit the Qualified Entity, Agency, the Secretary of State of the State of Oregon, or their authorized representatives, upon reasonable notice, access to all data and records relating to STIF moneys received and to inspect the Projects financed with STIF moneys including, but not limited to, the financial records, physical premises and Capital Assets used to deliver public transportation services. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.619, 184.758 & 184.761 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 184.751-184.766 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PTD 2-2026, adopt filed 01/22/2026, effective 01/22/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
