



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Corrections 
 Chapter 291 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 48 MENTAL HEALTH SPECIAL HOUSING 
 291-048-0270 
 Assignment to Intermediate Care Housing
 
 
 (1) An adult in custody may be assigned to Intermediate Care Housing based on a referral from a qualified mental health professional . An adult in custody may be referred if: 

 (a) It is determined at release from a Mental Health Infirmary that the adult in custody requires additional stabilization prior to placement into a less restrictive environment; 

 (b) It is determined at release from a Behavioral Health Unit that the adult in custody requires additional stabilization prior to placement into a less restrictive environment; 

 (c) It is determined at intake that the adult in custody does not have the basic coping skills to be placed directly into a less restrictive environment; 

 ( d ) It is determined during the adult in custody’s incarceration that there will be an increase in symptoms in a less restrictive environment if the adult in custody is not provided a higher level of treatment and support; or 

 ( e ) The adult in custody demonstrates high risk for suicide or frequent self- directed violence . 

 (2) An adult in custody may be admitted in Intermediate Care Housing when: 

 (a ) The Intermediate Care Housing mental health treatment team finds that the adult in custody needs mental health treatment; and 

 ( b ) There is a reasonable likelihood that treatment can be accomplished in Intermediate Care Housing. 

 ( 3 ) The Behavioral Health Services program manager for Intermediate Care Housing shall make the final decision whether an adult in custody is admitted to Intermediate Care Housing for treatment. 

 ( 4 ) Assessment: Within five working days following assignment to Intermediate Care Housing, the mental health treatment team will assess the need for treatment. The following mental health information shall be considered by the Behavioral Health Services program manager for Intermediate Care Housing in making the assessment: 

 (a) Mental health diagnoses ; 

 (b) Potential therapeutic effect of a change in environment; 

 (c) Potential for development of an individualized treatment plan for the adult in custody that is available within Intermediate Care Housing and is likely to benefit the adult in custody ; 

 (d) Ability to function in the general population; and 

 (e) Any other factors substantially related to the mental health of the adult in custody, as applicable, including observations made by employees , individual diagnostic interviews , and tests assessing intellect and coping abilities. 

 ( 5 ) Upon completion of the assessment and compilation of the adult in custody's mental health history: 

 (a) If the mental health treatment team determines the adult in custody is not in need of the level of care in Intermediate Care Housing, the adult in custody will be returned to their former status or referred to mental health treatment , as appropriate. 

 (b) If the mental health treatment team determines the adult in custody needs the level of care in Intermediate Care Housing, an individualized treatment plan will be developed. 

 (c) The adult in custody will be given the opportunity to voluntarily admit to Intermediate Care Housing. 

 (d) If the adult in custody is unwilling to be voluntarily admitted, the Behavioral Health Services program manager may admit the adult in custody on an involuntary basis: 

 (A) If the adult in custody has previously been assigned to a mental health special housing unit on an involuntary basis within the last 180 days, the adult in custody may be assigned to Intermediate Care Housing without any further action. 

 (B) If the adult in custody has not previously been assigned to a mental health special housing unit on an involuntary basis, the Behavioral Health Services program manager will deliver notice of Emergency/Involuntary Assignment to Mental Health Special Housing ( CD1567 ) to the institution’s functional unit manager. 

 (C) The institution’s functional unit manager will notify the Hearings Officer. 

 (D) The Hearings Officer will arrange to conduct an involuntary assignment hearing as outlined in OAR 291-048-0290 within five working days , or as soon as practicable, after completion of the assessment. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 25-2026, amend filed 07/30/2026, effective 08/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 6-2011, f. 3-31-11, cert. ef. 4-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 18-2010(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 12-13-10 thru 6-11-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
