



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 39 AGENCY WITH CHOICE 
 411-039-0250 
 Conditions 
 
 (1) Conditions may be attached to a license and take effect immediately upon issuance by the Department. The type of condition attached to a license must directly relate to a risk of harm or potential risk of harm to Individuals. Conditions may be attached upon a finding that: 

 (a) Information on the application or initial program review requires a condition to protect the health, safety, or welfare of the Individuals; 

 (b) A threat to the health, safety, or welfare of an Individual exists; 

 (c) There is reliable evidence of Abuse, neglect, or exploitation; and 

 (d) The Agency with Choice is not being operated in compliance with these rules. 

 (2) Examples of conditions that may be imposed on a Licensee include, but are not limited to: 

 (a) Restricting the total number of Individuals served based on the Agency with Choice ability to meet the health and safety needs includes restricting new admissions when a threat to the current Individuals exists and adding new Individuals would compound that threat. 

 (b) Requiring additional qualifications or training of Licensee and staff. 

 (3) The Department must notify the Licensee in writing of any conditions imposed, the reason for the conditions, and be given an opportunity to request a hearing under Oregon Laws 2024, chapter 37, section 1 (13). A Licensee must request a hearing in writing within 21 calendar days after the date the notice was personally served or mailed. Conditions take effect immediately and are a final order of the Department unless later rescinded. 

 (4) In addition to, or in-lieu of, a contested case hearing, a Licensee may request an informal conference with the Department to discuss conditions imposed. The informal conference does not diminish the Licensee's right to a hearing. 

 (5) Conditions imposed remain in effect, until the Department has sufficient cause to believe the situation that warranted the condition has been remedied. If the Licensee believes the situation that warranted the condition has been remedied, the Licensee may request in writing to the Department that the condition be removed. 

 (6) Conditions must be posted with the license in a prominent place in the Agency with Choice and be available for inspection at all times. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Or Laws 2024, ch. 37 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 124.050 & Or Laws 2024, ch. 37 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 17-2025, adopt filed 12/10/2025, effective 12/15/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
