



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 9 SALMON AND TROUT ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM AND RIPARIAN LANDS TAX INCENTIVE PROGRAM 
 635-009-0096 
 Salmon and Trout Enhancement Program Advisory Committee; Membership 
 
 (1) The Salmon and Trout Enhancement Program Advisory Committee consists of nine members appointed by the Governor through the Executive Appointments Administration application process. 

 (a) All citizens are welcome and encouraged to serve. 

 (b) In recommending the committee appointments, the Department may consider the following: 

 (A) Ensuring that the Committee’s membership reflects the demographic and geographic diversity of Oregon; 

 (B) Members with experience working with volunteers, community service organizations, or involvement in natural resource or angling education; and 

 (C) Including those engaging youth, underserved communities and diverse audiences, such as communities of color, tribes, and low-income communities. 

 (c) The term of office of a member of the Committee is four years, and a member is eligible for reappointment and may serve up to two consecutive full terms. 

 (d) Members shall: 

 (A) Be an Oregon resident; 

 (B) Have knowledge of STEP activities, work conducted by STEP biologists, volunteers, and partner organizations; 

 (C) Be in good standing with the Department’s Statewide Volunteer Program; 

 (D) Complete required trainings and adhere to the Department’s Volunteer Code of Conduct; 

 (E) Represent the regional and statewide interests of the program and volunteers; and 

 (F) Investigate topics of importance to STEP and develop recommendations. 

 (e) Members of the Committee will represent the following regions: 

 (A) North Coast; 

 (B) Mid-Coast; 

 (C) South Willamette Valley; 

 (D) North Willamette Valley; 

 (E) Coos-Coquille-Tenmile; 

 (F) Umpqua; 

 (G) South Coast; 

 (H) Upper Rogue; and 

 (I) Eastern Oregon. 

 (2) The Committee shall select officers and may form sub-committees as necessary to carry out business of the Committee. 

 (3) A member of the Committee will not receive compensation from the Department for services as a member. A member may be reimbursed for actual and necessary travel and other expenses incurred in the performance of official duties. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.138 & ORS 496.146 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496.460 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 97-2023, adopt filed 09/19/2023, effective 09/19/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
