



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 LIVESTOCK HEALTH AND SANITATION 
 603-011-1223 
 Import Requirements- New World Screwworm 
 
 In addition to the requirements of OAR 603-011-1100 and all other import requirements, the following shall apply to the importation of any species of warm-blooded livestock: 
(1) As used in this rule: 
(a) “Approved and effective treatment” means US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved animal drugs labeled for indications other than NWS myiasis that scientific literature indicates may be effective to prevent or treat New World Screwworm (NWS) myiasis and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulated products carrying a label for NWS and known to be effective against NWS. Dosage must be at a rate known to effectively treat NWS. 
(b) “Infested zone” means an area designated by the State Animal Health Official in the state of origin where New World Screwworm (NWS) has been detected. This may include: 
(A) a minimum of 20 km around a known infested premises where a reproducing fly population of NWS is confirmed.  Roads and other natural or manmade barriers/landmarks may be used to clearly define the area, 
(B) an area beyond the 20 km to include the county where NWS has been detected and suspected to have an established reproducing fly population, and all adjoining counties, or a designated geographic area determined by the infested state or USDA, whichever area is greater, or 
(C) counties in the United States of America that border a Mexican state that has had a detection of NWS. 
(c) “Infested state” means a state that has a confirmed detection of New World Screwworm (NWS) in a warm-blooded livestock or a detection of the fly itself and is suspected to have an established reproducing fly population.  A state is considered affected until state or federal officials declare the state free of NWS. 
(d) “Warm-blooded livestock” means all livestock species belonging to the Class Aves or Mammalia. 
(e) “Wound” means non-healed traumatically or surgically induced lesions of any size. To include fresh brands, dehorning, and castrations. 
(2) If any warm-blooded animal in the shipment is suspected to have a New World Screwworm (NWS) infestation, all animals in the shipment are not allowed entry into Oregon until all animals in the shipment have been treated and all wounds have healed. 
(3) No alternative documents will be accepted for movement from an infested state, including but not limited to an Extended Equine Movement Permit, Owner-Shipper Statement and Grazing Permits. 
(4) Except as otherwise provided in section (7) of this rule, warm-blooded livestock originating from an infested state must be accompanied by a Certificate of Veterinary Inspection (CVI) which displays a valid Import Permit issued by the Department no less than 48 hours prior to leaving the point of origin. The exemptions in OAR 603-011-1100(6) do not apply to any warm-blooded livestock originating from an infested state. 
(5) Except as otherwise provided in section (7) of this rule, warm-blooded livestock originating from an infested state must be accompanied by a Certificate of Veterinary Inspection (CVI) certifying they have been inspected by a USDA accredited veterinarian within five (5) days prior to leaving the point of origin. The CVI must include the statement, “All animals were individually inspected and found free of wounds.” The exemptions in OAR 603-011-1100(4) do not apply to any warm-blooded livestock originating from an infested state. 
(6) Except as otherwise provided in section (7) of this rule, warm-blooded livestock originating from within an infested zone must be accompanied by a Certificate of Veterinary Inspection (CVI) as required in section (6) of this rule, that additionally meets the following requirements: 
(a) The CVI must document: 
(A) that all warm-blooded livestock have been treated with an approved and effective treatment no less than 24 hours, and no more than 14 days prior to physical entry into Oregon. 
(B) the approved and effective treatment must by administered by or directly overseen by an authorized state or federal representative, or a USDA accredited veterinarian, and 
(C) the treatment date, route of administration and medication. 
(b)  The CVI is valid to leave the point of origin within five (5) days from the date of administration of an approved and effective treatment, or inspection, whichever occurs first, and 
(c) The CVI must include the statement, “All animals were individually inspected and found free of evidence of NWS infestation.”, 
(7) The following warm-blooded livestock originating from within an infested zone are exempt from the specified requirements in sections (4)-(6) of this rule: 
(a) The following pre-movement time periods apply to dairy calves less than 60 days of age which have been individually inspected and found free of NWS larvae or wounds: 
(A) Dairy calves less than 60 days of age may be moved immediately following administration of an approved and effective treatment, and 
(B) Dairy calves less than 60 days of age must obtain an import permit no less than 24 hours prior to leaving the point of origin. 
(b) Hatching and table eggs, and chicks under 5 days of age, originating from flocks under the supervision of the National Poultry Improvement Plan classified under 145.B, 145.C, 145.D, 145.J, 146.B, 146.C, or 146.D, meeting the requirements in OAR 603-011-1230. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561.190 & 596.341 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 561.190, 596.341, ORS 596.020, 596.351 & 596.355 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 101-2026, adopt filed 06/04/2026, effective 06/04/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
