



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Pharmacy 
 Chapter 855 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 115 PHARMACISTS 
 855-115-0145 
 Counseling 
 
 (1) For each prescription, the pharmacist must determine the manner and amount of counseling that is reasonable and necessary under the circumstance to promote safe and effective use or administration of the drug or device, and to facilitate an appropriate therapeutic outcome for that patient. 

 (2) Counseling must be provided or offered to be provided to the patient or patient's agent on the use of a drug or device: 

 (a) When the drug or device has not been previously dispensed to the patient by the Drug Outlet pharmacy; 

 (b) When there has been a change in the dose, formulation, or directions; 

 (c) When the prescription has been transferred to the Drug Outlet pharmacy by oral, written or electronic means; or 

 (d) For any refill that the pharmacist deems counseling is necessary.  

 (3) An offer for the pharmacist to counsel under (1) and (2) must be made by a licensee. 

 (4) The pharmacist must counsel the patient or patient’s agent on the use of a drug or device upon request. 

 (5) When communicating (e.g., counseling, patient care services, billing) with a patient who prefers to communicate in a language other than English or who communicates in signed language, the pharmacist must work with a health care interpreter from the health care interpreter registry administered by the Oregon Health Authority under ORS 413.558 unless the pharmacist is proficient in the patient's preferred language. 

 (6) For a prescription where counseling has only been provided in writing, the pharmacist must provide drug information in a format accessible by the patient, including information on when the pharmacist is available and how the patient or patient’s agent may contact the pharmacist. 

 (7) A pharmacist is not required to counsel a patient or patient’s agent when the patient or patient’s agent refuses such consultation. If refused: 

 (a) Only a licensee can accept a patient’s or patient's agent’s request not to be counseled, when counseling is required. 

 (b) The pharmacist may choose not to release the prescription until counseling has been completed. 

 (8) Counseling must be provided under conditions that maintain patient privacy and confidentiality. 

 (9) Counseling, offers to counsel or declinations of counseling regarding prescriptions must be documented with the licensee’s identity. 

 (10) Additional forms of drug information (e.g., Medication Guide, Patient Package Inserts, Instructions for Use) must be used to supplement counseling when required by federal law or rule.  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 689.205 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 689.151 & ORS 689.155 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BP 31-2023, adopt filed 12/19/2023, effective 03/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
