



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS 
 581-017-2830 
 Safe School Culture Grant 
 
 (1) The following definitions will be used in this section: 

 (a) “Cost per Instructor” is the maximum amount of grant funds, as determined by the Department, provided to reasonably cover the costs of each instructor certification course reimbursed by the Department. 

 (b) “Initial Instructors” is the number of individuals training to become instructors that will be reimbursed by the Department regardless of any matching funds from the individual school district or ESD. 

 (c) "Small District Floor” is the minimum grant amount, as determined by the Department, that shall be provided to school districts and charter schools from Remaining Grant Funds. 

 (d)  “State Match Instructors” is the maximum number of additional individuals training to become instructors that will be reimbursed by the Department assuming school district and ESD maximum matching amounts. 

 (e)  “Stipend” is a set amount of funds, as determined by the Department, which will reasonably cover the costs of wages, stipends, travel, and other costs related to an individual attending an instructor training course. 

 (f) “Student” shall be calculated by the latest annual Average Daily Membership available to the Department. 

 (g)  “Charter School” is a public charter school as provided in ORS 338.005 

 (2)  The Department shall first allocate the Safe School Culture Grant funds to cover the Cost per Instructor training as follows: 

 (a)  The Department shall subtract three percent of the Safe School Culture Grant funds for Department administrative costs. 

 (b)  The number of Students shall be determined for each school district and public Charter School. 

 (c)  The number of Initial Instructors for each school district, Charter School, and ESD shall be calculated pursuant to SB 283 (2023). 

 (d)  The number of State Match Instructors shall be calculated for each school district, Charter School and ESD, pursuant to SB 283 (2023). 

 (e)  The Cost Per Instructor shall be determined for each type of Instructor. 

 (f)  The Department shall calculate the Total Course Costs by adding the Initial Instructors to the State Match Instructors and multiplying the total by the Cost Per Instructor. 

 (g)  The Department shall calculate the Total Related Costs by multiplying the total of the Stipend amount plus any other related costs as determined by the Department to the total of Initial Instructors plus State Match Instructors. 

 (h)  The Department shall calculate a Total State Grant Cost per school district, Charter School, and ESD by adding the Total Course Costs to the Total Related Costs. 

 (i)  The Department shall sum all Total State Grant Costs for each school district, Charter School, and ESD to get the Statewide Training Costs. 

 (j)  The Department shall calculate Remaining Grant Funds by subtracting Statewide Training Costs from the Safe School Culture Grant funds. The Department shall add to that amount any funds not expended by the school districts, ESDs, and Charter Schools in training staff to be certified instructors. 

 (3)  The Department shall distribute Remaining Grant Funds to be used for training of staff by school districts, Charter Schools and ESDs, as calculated in (2)(i) above as follows: 

 (a)  Determining an amount to be distributed to each ESD in the state. 

 (b)  Dividing the Remaining Grant Funds by total number of Students in the state to get a Funds per Student amount. 

 (c)  Multiplying the number of Students in each school district, and Charter School by the Funds per Student to get a District Grant. 

 (d)  If a District Grant is less than the Small School Floor, then the District Grant will be increased to the Small School Floor. 

 (e)  Calculate the Adjusted Remaining Funds by subtracting from the Remaining Grant Funds the total amount provided to ESDs and the statewide total of the difference after subtracting District Grants from the Small School Floor for those District Grants less than the Small School Floor. 

 (f)  The Adjusted Remaining Funds will be divided by the total number of Students in the state to get the Adjusted Funds per Student amount. 

 (g)  The Adjusted Funds per Student shall be multiplied by the number of Students in a school district, and Charter School to provide an Adjusted Allocation for each school district and Charter School. 

 (h)  Those school districts and Charter Schools that still receive less than the Small School Floor, will have their allocations increased to the Small School Floor. 

 (4)  All calculations by the Department shall be final. The Department may republish allocations to correct errors or omissions as the Department determines in its sole discretion. 

 (5)  To qualify for reimbursement, the instructor certification courses must be administered by programs that are: 

 (a)  Nationally recognized organizations that provides training to certify individuals in nonviolent crisis intervention method; and 

 (b)  Approved training programs pursuant to OAR 581-021-0563. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  SB 283 (2023) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  SB 283 (2023) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 20-2024, adopt filed 04/24/2024, effective 04/24/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
