



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 290 ENERGY EFFICIENCY TRAINING GRANT PROGRAM 
 330-290-0060 
 Use of grant funds 
 
 (1) An eligible entity may use a percentage, as specified in a performance agreement, not to exceed 15 percent, of the awarded grant funds for program-related administrative expenses and marketing costs. 

 (2) The Department may consider awarding additional administrative costs, in addition to the 15 percent, if an applicant can demonstrate that additional administrative costs are essential to implementing a successful program. The applicant must clearly state how the funds will be used and why additional funding is required. Circumstances where additional funding may be considered by the Department will be stated in the funding opportunity announcement. 

 (3) Eligible administrative and marketing costs include the following costs if they are necessary to administer and market the program: 

 (a) Direct costs to implement and monitor the program including staffing, materials, supplies, and travel; and 

 (b) Other costs the Department determines should be eligible because they are necessary to administer or market the program. 

 (4) The Department may list and provide guidance regarding ineligible administrative and marketing costs in the funding opportunity announcement. 

 (5) Grantee and partner organizations may use funds to provide financial assistance to program participants, in an effort to ensure program completion, in the following forms: 

 (a) Training and training materials such as textbooks and manuals; 

 (b) Certification exam fees; 

 (c) Travel reimbursement; 

 (d) Wage stipends; 

 (e) Technical assistance; 

 (f) Software licenses; 

 (g) Wraparound services deemed by the Department to be necessary for the successful completion of the program by participants; and 

 (h) Employer engagement and hiring incentives. 

 (6) Eligible costs include costs associated with training material development, including   the addition of culturally-specific materials. 

 (7) Staffing associated with providing training to program participants by grantee or partner entity are not considered administrative costs and are therefore not included in the 15 percent cap for administrative costs. 

 (8) The creation of informational material not directly related to the delivery of training under the program is allowable as long as it falls within the following categories and is made available to the Department for public outreach and education: 

 (a) Information on the availability of moneys, programs, rebates and other incentives for acquiring and installing energy efficient appliances for heating and cooling; 

 (b) Materials describing methods, techniques, available incentives and funding available for upgrading electrical panels and wiring to accommodate energy efficient appliances for heating and cooling; and 

 (c) Information to assist contractors and property owners in planning for, installing and operating heat pumps. 

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Oregon Laws 2023 Chapter 442 & ORS 469.040 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Oregon Laws 2023 Chapter 442 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 7-2024, adopt filed 10/29/2024, effective 10/29/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
