



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Child Welfare Programs - Chapter 413 
 
 
 
 
 Division 203 Relative Certification 
 413-203-0035 
 Responsibilities for On-Going Certification of a Relative Resource Parent 
 
 (1) A certifier must conduct a minimum of one home visit to any relative resource parent every 90 days, which must include: 

 (a) Face to face contact with at least one certified relative resource parent; and 

 (b) Verbal contact with each relative resource parent. 

 (c) Document the contacts with the relative resource parent and the information obtained in the provider record of the Department’s electronic information system. 

 (2) A certifier must collaborate with a relative resource parent in determining the skills enhancement that would benefit the relative resource parent and the relative child placed in their home. 

 (3) A certifier must collaborate with a relative resource parent in determining what tangible goods may be required to meet the safety and well-being needs of the relative child placed in their home, and what resources exist to provide those tangible goods. 

 (4) A certifier must assess each relative resource parent’s compliance with OAR 413-203-0000 to 413-203-0145 and their ability to continue to meet the safety, health, and well-being needs for the child in the care or custody of the Department at each home visit and complete the following activities when applicable: 

 (a) Whenever it becomes known that the relative resource parent plans to become an in-home child care, an adult foster care, or an in-home adult day care provider, seek approval from the Child Welfare Program Manager or designee on a form approved by the Department; 

 (b) Whenever it becomes known that another agency plans to place a child with a relative resource parent, prior to placement of the child, approval from the child welfare program manager or designee is required to be documented on a form approved by the Department. 

 (5) If an adult member of the household has not previously had a criminal records and child welfare background check, the certifier must conduct these checks outlined in OAR 413-203-0020 and OAR 413-203-0025. 

 (6) Whenever it becomes known that a Relative Resource Parent or other adult member of the household, has been arrested or convicted of a crime not previously assessed and approved: 

 (a) Assure completion of a criminal records check under OAR 413-208-0000 to 413-208-0035. 

 (b) Document the information considered and the results of any fitness determination or safety assessment on a form approved by the Department. 

 (7) During, and at the conclusion of a child protective services assessment regarding an allegation of child abuse in a Relative Resource Parent home follow the requirements of OAR 413-015-0601 to 413-015-0608. 

 (8) When the assigned certifier or certification supervisor is notified that information received by a screener involving a home certified by the Department is referred for a CPS assessment, within one business day after the CPS worker has made initial contact with the relative resource parent, the certifier must: 

 (a) Contact and notify the relative resource parent and provide them with the following information: 

 (A) The certifier is available to answer questions related to certification but must not discuss the specifics of the CPS assessment; 

 (B) The certified relative resource parent is immediately placed on inactive referral status pending the completion of the CPS assessment; and 

 (C) The certified relative resource parent has the option of having a resource parent or relative resource parent available for support during the assessment. 

 (b) Document the initiation of a CPS assessment and the placement of the certified relative resource parent on inactive referral status in provider notes in the Department's electronic information system. 

 (c) Notify Department staff responsible for placement that the certified relative resource parent's home is on inactive referral status. 

 (d) At the conclusion of the CPS assessment, the certifier and certification supervisor must: 

 (A) Staff the case and review all the information in the CPS assessment; 

 (B) Determine what certification actions should be taken under OAR 413-203-0040; and 

 (C) Ensure documentation of the results of the staffing in provider notes in the Department's electronic information system.   

 (9) Placement Support Plan 

 (a) When a certifier determines that a relative resource parent needs additional support to maintain conditions that provide safety, health, and well-being in the home, the certifier may develop a placement support plan. A placement support plan is appropriate when one or both of the following circumstances apply: 

 (A) The relative resource parent needs additional training, instruction, or skills to improve their ability to meet the needs of a child placed in the home by the Department. 

 (B) The relative resource parent is not in compliance with one or more of the Department's certification standards, and the non-compliance does not result in either a present danger safety threat or an impending danger safety threat to a child. 

 (b) When a placement support plan is appropriate to support a relative resource parent, the certifier must gather information regarding current circumstances from: 

 (A) The relative resource parent; 

 (B) The child placed in the relative resource parent's home, when appropriate; 

 (C) The caseworkers of any child currently placed in the home; and 

 (D) Other collateral contacts that may have information regarding the characteristics of the care provided in the relative resource parent's home. 

 (c) The certifier must schedule a meeting with the relative resource parent to discuss the current circumstances which result in a placement support plan and the appropriate supports and services to assist the relative resource parent. 

 (d) A placement support plan must be documented and specify all of the following: 

 (A) The actions or services in which the relative resource parent must participate. 

 (B) The actions or services the Department will provide to support the relative resource parent in maintaining conditions that provide safety, health, and well-being for any child in the care or custody of the Department. 

 (C) Agreement that the relative resource parent is willing and able to participate in the actions or services. 

 (D) Agreement to review the placement support plan on a specified date, which is within at least 90 days. 

 (E) The anticipated end date of the placement support plan. 

 (e) A certification supervisor must approve the placement support plan. 

 (f) When the placement support plan has been approved, the certifier must: 

 (A) Provide a copy to the relative resource parent; 

 (B) Document the placement support plan in the Department's electronic information system; and 

 (C) Provide written notification to the caseworkers of each child placed in the home by the Department. 

 (g) The certifier must review the placement support plan on or before the date specified in subsection (D) of this rule and determine, in consultation with the certification supervisor, whether the placement support plan should be updated or ended. 

 (10) If the placement support plan is updated or ended, the certifier must document the decision in the provider record and must notify the caseworkers of each child placed in the home by the Department. 

 (11) If the relative resource parent fails to follow through with a placement support plan, the Department may deny an application or revoke a Relative Temporary Certificate of Approval or Relative Certificate of Approval. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 418.005 & ORS 409.050 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 409.050 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CWP 17-2026, minor correction filed 02/25/2026, effective 02/25/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CWP 20-2025, amend filed 12/23/2025, effective 01/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CWP 12-2025, adopt filed 08/07/2025, effective 08/11/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CWP 3-2025, temporary adopt filed 02/14/2025, effective 02/17/2025 through 08/15/2025 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
