



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 175 EMPLOYMENT RELATED DAY CARE PROGRAM 
 414-175-0024 
 Verification Requirements 
 
 

 (1) Methods of verifying information include the following:  

 (a) Electronic: Information available and provided to the Department by worker-initiated verification through system access. Electronic verification is the preferred method when information is available.  

 (b) Self-attestation: Information provided orally or in writing by or on behalf of an individual. Self-attestation is only accepted where indicated below and no other method is required.  

 (c) Documentation: Documentary evidence provided by or on behalf of an individual or obtained by the Department from a third party. Documentation is required whenever electronic verification is not available and self-attestation is not allowed. Medical documentation must be written and must contain all the following:  

 (A) A diagnosis in medical terminology, including an explanation of whether the impairment limits the individual's ability to perform normal functions and, if so, how.  

 (B) A prognosis, including an expected recovery time frame.  

 (C) Clinical findings from physical examination, psychiatric evaluation, X-rays, or a laboratory procedure, including specific data supporting diagnosis of a condition that causes disability, either on a medical or psychiatric basis.  

 (2) Acceptable forms of medical documentation include:  

 (a) Medical evaluations from licensed physicians, psychiatrists, osteopaths, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, and ophthalmologists.   

 (b) Vision assessments from ophthalmologists and licensed optometrists.  

 (c) Mental health evaluations from psychiatrists, licensed or certified psychologists, and psychiatric mental health nurse practitioners.  

 (d) Supplemental medical and vocational information to augment evaluations from acceptable medical sources, from a licensed social worker, licensed physical or occupational therapist, or licensed nurse practitioner.  

 (3) The following information must be verified at initial application, recertification, and whenever eligibility for benefits becomes questionable, except as outlined in sections 4, 5 and 6.  

 (a) Countable income  

 (b) Special Needs Rate such that a request for the higher rate must be received and the disability must be verified by one of the following:  

 (A) A physician, nurse practitioner, clinical social worker, or any additional sources in section 2 of this rule.  

 (B) Eligibility for Early Intervention and Early Childhood Special Education Programs, or school-age Special Education Programs.  

 (C) Eligibility for SSI.  

 (c) Identity of the caretaker(s)  

 (d) Resources: self-attestation is allowable  

 (e) Child care need  

 (f) Second caretaker unable to provide adequate care  

 (g) Need for care of child(ren) age 13 or older at the time of application or recertification must be verified by one of the following:   

 (A) A clinical social worker or any additional sources in section 2 of this rule.   

 (B) A child’s eligibility for SSI  

 (C) A child being under court supervision  

 (D) A child’s eligibility for foster care payments  

 (E) Other unique circumstances where the child’s safety or the caretaker’s ability to work or participate in authorized activities will be significantly compromised if child care is not approved: self-attestation is allowed.  

 (h) Eligibility for priority processing: self-attestation is allowable.  

 (i) Caretaker’s schedule: self-attestation is allowable.  

 (j) Immunizations:  

 (A) Reporting that immunizations are up to date: self-attestation is allowable.  

 (B) Reporting that an immunization series has started or that requirements are met due to having the medical or non-medical exemption form: documentation is required.  

 (k) Payment of an unpaid copay  

 (l) Head Start enrollment  

 (m) Authorized Medical Leave  

 (A) Parental leave:  

 (i) Up to 3 months: self-attestation is allowable.  

 (ii) More than 3 months: medical documentation is required.  

 (B) Medical leave for any other reason: medical documentation or verbal or written verification from the caretaker's employer confirming that the caretaker is on medical leave from employment is required.  

 (4) The following information must be verified during a certification period:  

 (a) A change in income:  

 (A) A decrease in income to reduce the copay.  

 (B) An increase in income due to a new filing group member entering the home.  

 (C) Income over the income limits in OAR 414-175-0050: self-attestation is allowable.  

 (b) An increase in child care hours: electronic verification or documentation is required.  

 (5) For filing groups categorically eligible for ERDC, self-attestation is allowed except as outlined in subsection (3)(j)(B).  

 (6) For filing groups categorically eligible under Expanded Child Welfare (EXP CW), self-attestation is allowed for child care need, hours and income.  

 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.500 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.500 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 8-2026, amend filed 05/28/2026, effective 06/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 11-2025, amend filed 12/18/2025, effective 01/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 5-2025, amend filed 06/25/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 139-2024, amend filed 12/11/2024, effective 01/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELD 11-2023, adopt filed 06/28/2023, effective 07/01/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
