



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 29 STATE MEAT INSPECTION PROGRAM 
 603-029-0725 
 Electrical; Stunning or Slaughtering with Electric Current 
 
 The slaughtering of swine, sheep, calves, cattle, and goats with the use of electric current and the handling in connection therewith, in compliance with the provisions contained in this rule, are hereby designated and approved as humane methods of slaughtering and handling of such animals. 

 (1) Administration of electric current, required effect; handling. 

 (a) The electric current shall be administered so as to produce, at a minimum, surgical anesthesia, i.e., a state where the meat animal feels no painful sensation. The animals shall be either stunned or killed before they are shackled, hoisted, thrown, cast, or cut. They shall be exposed to the electric current in a way that will accomplish the desired result quickly and effectively, with a minimum of excitement and discomfort. 

 (b) The driving or conveying of the animals to the place of application of electric current shall be done with a minimum of excitement and discomfort to the animals. Delivery of calm animals to the place of application is essential to ensure rapid and effective insensibility. Among other things, this requires that, in driving animals to the place of application, electrical equipment be used as little as possible and with the lowest effective voltage. 

 (c) The quality and location of the electrical shock shall be such as to produce immediate insensibility to pain in the exposed animal. 

 (d) The stunned animal shall remain in a state of surgical anesthesia through shackling, sticking, and bleeding. 

 (2) Facilities and procedures; operator. 

 (a) General requirements for operator. It is necessary that the operator of electric current application equipment be skilled, attentive, and aware of his or her responsibility. 

 (b) Special requirements for electric current application equipment. The ability of electric current equipment to perform with maximum efficiency is dependent on its proper design and efficient mechanical operation. Pathways, compartments, current applicators, and all other equipment used must be designed to properly accommodate the species of animals being anesthetized. Animals shall be free from pain-producing restraining devices. Injury of animals must be prevented by the elimination of sharp projections or exposed wheels or gears. There shall be no unnecessary holes, spaces or openings where feet or legs of animals may be injured. Impellers or other devices designed to mechanically move or drive animals or otherwise keep them in motion or compartmentalized shall be constructed of flexible or padded material. Power activated gates designed for constant flow of animals shall be so fabricated that they will not cause injury. All equipment used to apply and control the electrical current shall be maintained in good repair, and all indicators, instruments, and measuring devices shall be available for inspection by inspectors during the operation and at other times. 

 (c) Electric current. Each animal shall be given a sufficient application of electric current to ensure surgical anesthesia throughout the bleeding operation. Suitable timing, voltage and current control devices shall be used to ensure that each animal receives the necessary electrical charge to produce immediate unconsciousness. The current shall be applied so as to avoid the production of hemorrhages or other tissue changes which could interfere with inspection procedures. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 603.085, ORS 619.042 & ORS 619.046 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 619.042, ORS 603.059 & ORS 603.065 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 19-2022, adopt filed 07/27/2022, effective 07/28/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
