



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 210 REGISTERED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES (EFFECTIVE JULY 2025) 
 414-210-1010 
 Illness 
 
 (1)    A provider must not accept a child into care who:  
(a)    Is diagnosed as having or being a carrier of a child care restrictable disease, as defined in Oregon Health Authority administrative rules, except with the written approval of the public health administrator or licensed health care provider; or  
(b)    Has one or more of the following symptoms of illness, except with the written approval of the public health administrator or licensed health care provider:  
(A)    Fever over 100.4°F. A child with a fever over 100.4°F may return if fever free for 24 hours without the aid of medication.  
(B)    “Diarrhea”, which means three or more watery, bloody, or loose stools in 24 hours, the sudden onset of loose stools, or a child is unable to control bowel function when previously able. A child with diarrhea may return 48 hours after diarrhea resolves or with written clearance from a licensed healthcare provider.  
(C)    Vomiting at least one time, where there is no explanation for the vomiting. A child who vomits without explanation may return 48 hours after the last episode of vomiting or with written clearance from a licensed healthcare provider.  
(D)    Severe or persistent coughing. A child with severe or persistent coughing may return after symptoms are improving for 24 hours or with written clearance from a licensed healthcare provider.  
(E)    Unusual yellow color to skin or eyes. A child with unusual yellow color to skin or eyes may return to care with written clearance from a licensed healthcare provider.  
(F)    Open sores or wounds discharging bodily fluids. A child with open sores or wounds discharging bodily fluids may return to care after rash is resolved, when sores and wounds are dry or can be completely covered with a bandage, or with written clearance from a licensed health care provider.  
(G)    Stiff neck and headache with one or more of the symptoms listed above  
(H)    Uncharacteristic lethargy, decreased alertness, increased irritability, increased confusion, or a behavior change that prevents active participation in usual school activities. A child with any of the above symptoms may return to care when symptoms resolve, return to normal behavior, or with written clearance from a licensed health care provider.  
(I)    Difficulty breathing or abnormal wheezing. A child with difficulty breathing or abnormal wheezing may return to care after symptoms are improving for 24 hours.  
(J)    Complaints of severe pain. A child with complaints of severe pain may return to care after symptoms are improving.  
(K)    Eye lesions that are severe, weeping, or pus filled. A child with eye lesions that are severe, weeping, or pus filled may return to care after symptoms resolve or with written clearance from a licensed healthcare provider. 
(2)    If a child who has been admitted into care shows signs of illness, as described in this rule, a provider must: 
(a)    Separate the child from the other children in a location where the child can be supervised by caregivers and carefully observed at all times; 
(b)    Notify the parent to remove the children from care as soon as possible; and 
(c)    Until the parent arrives, provide the child with an individual cot, mat, or bed that can be easily cleaned and disinfected after use. 
(3)    If any child, caregiver or volunteer has a restrictable disease, as defined in Oregon Health Authority, Public Health Division Chapter 333, Division 19 Investigation and Control of Diseases: General Powers And Responsibilities, a provider must: 
(a)    Immediately report the incident or illness to the local health department; 
(b)    Follow the health department’s recommendations on exclusion and readmission of children and caregivers; and 
(c)    Post a notice for the parents of all children who attend the home. 
(4)    A provider must develop a written care plan at the time of enrollment, or when an allergy is identified, for each enrolled child who has an allergy that poses a threat to the child’s health, safety and wellbeing. The plan must include instructions regarding the allergen and steps to be taken to avoid the allergen; signs and symptoms of an allergic reaction; and a detailed treatment plan including the names, doses, and methods of prompt administration of any medication in response to allergic reactions. In addition: 
(a)    The parent must be notified immediately of any suspected allergic reactions or if the child consumed or came in contact with the allergen, even if a reaction did not occur; 
(b)    If epinephrine is administered, emergency medical services must be contacted immediately, and, CCLD must be notified by 5:00pm the next business day.  
(c)    All caregivers involved in care of the child must be trained on the written care plan; and 
(d)    Specific food allergies must be shared with all caregivers that prepare and serve food. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.330 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 140-2024, adopt filed 12/11/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
