



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 68 IDENTIFICATION, NOTIFICATION, SALE AND EXCHANGE, CLEARING TITLE, OR RESERVATION OF HISTORICALLY FILLED LANDS, AND APPROVAL TO CREATE, SELL, EXCHANGE OR RESERVE NEW LANDS 
 141-068-0030 
 Identification of State’s Interest in Historically Filled Lands 
 
 (1) Upon direction from the Board to determine whether any interest remains or is vested in the State of Oregon with respect to historically filled lands in a segment of a waterway, the Department shall take the following steps:  (a) Post a public notice on the Department’s website;  (b) Submit a press release to media in the study area; and  (c) Inform affected property owners, affected local, state and federal agencies, state legislators representing the district where the segment is located, any local port district, any local federally recognized tribes, any local watershed councils, national estuary programs and soil and water districts, and other interested persons.  (2) In conducting a study the Department shall take, at a minimum, the following steps:  (a) Analyze existing filled lands inventories, plat maps and deeds, historic low and high water lines as reported by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, aerial photography and tax lot information as compiled and digitized by the Department;  (b) Identify the purpose and date that the fill was placed, if possible;  (c) Identify the current site characteristics and use; and  (d) Evaluate any new information that can be collected by researching the local property records, or that may be provided by affected property owners or other stakeholders.  (3) Upon completion of a study the Department shall prepare and submit to the Board a draft report setting forth the Department’s findings and conclusions as to whether any historically filled lands are located within the area under study.  (4) Upon completion of the draft report, the Department shall:  (a) Post a public notice on the Department’s website;  (b) Submit a press release to media in the study area; and  (c) Provide appropriate public notice to affected property owners, affected local, state and federal agencies, any local port district, , any local federally recognized tribes, any local watershed councils, national estuary programs and soil and water districts, and other interested persons concerning the draft report.  (5) The Department shall provide an opportunity for the public to submit written comments on the draft report and to submit other evidence concerning the presence of historically filled lands.  (6) The Department may post a notice of a draft report and opportunity to comment at a local government building, public library, or other appropriate locations in order to ensure that minority and low-income communities are included and aware of a study and draft report. The Department shall make paper copies of materials available to any person upon request.  (7) The Department shall hold public workshops and informational meetings in the study area as appropriate.  (8) The Department shall hold a public hearing in the area of affected lands if it receives a written request within thirty (30) days after the posting of notice of the draft report by the Department.  (9) Following the notification and opportunity for a public hearing, the Board may adopt the draft report as final, or the Board may refer the report to the Department for further action.  (10) Upon adoption of a final report, the Board shall declare the nature and extent of the State’s claim to any interest that remains vested in the State of Oregon as identified in the final report.  (11) A declaration by the Board is not a final agency order. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 273 & 274 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 274.905-274.956 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-12-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2016, f. 5-13-16, cert. ef. 6-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
