



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 30 STANDARDS FOR APPROVED RECOVERY SCHOOLS 
 581-030-1000 
 Requirements for Student Enrollment in an Approved Recovery School 
 
 (1) Student enrollment in an approved recovery school is voluntary. 

 (2) All students who are residents in Oregon are eligible for enrollment in an approved recovery school if space is available and if the student: 

 (a) Has a diagnosis for substance use disorder; 

 (b) Has completed or participated in a substance use disorder treatment services program; or 

 (c) Has completed a screening process with the approved recovery school that considers history of substance use, educational records, behavioral health history, and the student’s willingness to participate in recovery services offered by the school. 

 (3) Students must demonstrate their readiness to change through a standard screening process established by the approved recovery school. 

 (4)(a) Students who enroll in an approved recovery school shall participate in random urinalysis testing or other non-invasive drug testing provided by the school. 

 (b) Fees and costs associated with testing shall be paid for by the approved recovery school. 

 (5) An approved recovery school may require students to tour the campus and participate in an enrollment meeting. 

 (6) An approved recovery school may require students to participate in a substance use disorder screening process with staff or students prior to enrolling in the approved recovery school. 

 (7) An approved recovery school may not limit student enrollment based on race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, ethnicity, national origin, disability, the terms of an individualized education program, income level, or proficiency in the English language. 

 (8) If the number of students enrolling in an approved recovery school exceeds the capacity of the program, class, grade level, or building, an approved recovery school may give priority for admission to student groups identified in ORS 327.180(2)(b) and OAR 581-014-0001(4). 

 (9) Within 10 days of a student’s enrollment in an approved recovery school, the Department of Education shall provide to the student’s parent, legal guardian or person in parental relationship written information about: 

 (a) Child find obligations to identify, locate and evaluate students enrolled in the approved recovery school to determine if students qualify for special education and related services; and 

 (b) Who they can contact to answer questions or provide additional information related to special education and related services. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 336.680 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 336.680 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 52-2024, adopt filed 10/25/2024, effective 10/25/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
