



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-0850 
 Maintenance and Sanitation 
 
 (1) A certified ONB program must routinely clean, sanitize and disinfect surfaces and objects that are frequently touched, such as tables, as follows: 
(a) Clean surfaces with a soap and water solution or spray cleaner and rinse before sanitizing or disinfecting;  
(b) Mix, use and store cleaners, sanitizers and disinfectants according to label directions; 
(c) Prevent the contamination of food, food-contact items and surfaces when using cleaners, sanitizers or disinfectants;  
(d) Ensure sanitizers or disinfectants have an Environmental Protection Agency registration number on the label; and 
(e) Follow label directions or ensure sanitizers and disinfectants remain on the surface for 5 minutes. 
(2) A certified ONB program may provide natural materials to children to support the nature-based curriculum that, as organic matter, may not be able to be sanitized, such as decomposing logs, leaves, or items in a mud kitchen. Such materials must be checked to confirm they are nonpoisonous and free of toxins or animal droppings prior to use in the certified ONB program. 
(3) A certified ONB program must maintain any building, equipment, and vehicles in good repair, in a clean and sanitary condition, and free of clutter and litter. A certified ONB program must: 
(a) Clean and sanitize or disinfect toilet rooms, toilets, and sinks as needed and as required in OAR 414-320-0830, Toilets and Sinks.  Door knobs and cabinet pulls in toilet rooms must be sanitized when soiled and at least daily. 
(b) Empty and sanitize water tables, similar containers, and water toys daily or more often if necessary. 
(c) Clean and sanitize kitchen and food preparation areas as required in OAR 414-320-1100. 
(4) Toys must be cleaned and sanitized as follows: 
(a) When a toy comes into contact with a child's mouth or bodily fluids, it must be removed from use until it can be cleaned and sanitized prior to use by another child; 
(b) Toys not coming into contact with a child's mouth or bodily fluids must be cleaned and sanitized weekly or more often as needed; and 
(c) Cloth toys, if used, must be machine washed at least weekly and when soiled. 
(5) A certified ONB program must immediately clean up any spills of bodily fluids, such as urine, feces, blood, vomit, saliva, nasal discharge, eye discharge, or other bodily fluids as follows:  
(a) Staff must use disposable, nonporous gloves when handling bodily fluids; 
(b) Surfaces must be cleaned and disinfected; 
(c) Blood-contaminated material must be disposed of in a plastic bag with a secure tie or container with a disposable liner; 
(d) Gloves must be removed immediately after use, placed in a tied, sealed, or otherwise closed plastic bag and discarded immediately; and 
(e) Hands must be washed after using and disposing of the gloves. 
(6) A certified ONB program must keep all garbage and bodily fluid waste in non-absorbent, easily washable containers with tight-fitting lids. 
(7) Garbage cans and receptacles must be emptied on a daily basis and cleaned and disinfected as needed. Garbage and waste containers must be kept clean and minimize the presence of rodents, flies, roaches and other vermin. 
(8) A certified ONB program must clean or sanitize bedding, sleeping equipment, and other soiled items as follows: 
(a) Bedding must be cleaned at least weekly, or more often if soiled and before use by another child; 
(b) Mats, cots, and other approved sleeping surfaces must be cleaned and sanitized at least once a week, or more often when soiled and before use by another child; 
(c) All clean linen and clothing must be stored in a sanitary manner and separate from dirty laundry; 
(d) Children’s wet or soiled clothing to be sent home, must be stored in individual plastic or non-absorbent bags immediately after being removed from the child; 
(e) Containers for storing soiled non-disposable items, such as cloth diapers, washcloths, children’s clothing, and bed linens must be non-absorbent, leakproof, have a leakproof, disposable liner and a tight-fitting lid and must:  
(A) Be inaccessible to children; and 
(B) Not be stored in food preparation or food storage areas. 
(f) A certified ONB program must keep cloths, both single use and multiple use, used for wiping food spills on utensils and food-contact surfaces clean and use them for no other purpose; and 
(g) Cloths that are reused must be stored in a sanitizing solution between uses and disposed of or laundered daily. 
(9) Any area of the certified ONB program premises that contains a bodily fluid or other contaminant that cannot be cleaned or sanitized must be made inaccessible to children. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
