



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board 
 Chapter 695 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 48 DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION GRANT PROGRAM 
 695-048-0090 
 Application Requirements 
 
 (1) In accordance with ORS 448.370 , OWEB will accept on a regular basis Drinking Water Source Protection G rant applications for the acquisitions of Protective In strument s that lead to the protection, restoration, or enhancement of drinking water sources .   

 ( 2 ) If a W ater S upplier has formed or proposes to form a P artnership with a H older , the application must include, at a minimum, the following information about the P artnership :   

 (a) A d escription of P artnership resources to assist with the long-term protection, restoration, or enhancement of drinking water source s.    

 (b) Whether the P artnership’s mission support s the protection or restoration of natural resources and/or drinking water .   

 (c) Documentation of a formal commitment between Water Supplier and Holder.   

 ( 3 ) The application must include a n ordinance, order, or resolution by the applicant’s governing body authorizing the applicant to fulfill the obligations proposed in the applicant’s grant application.   

 ( 4 ) The application must d escribe the timeline for acquiring the Pro tective Instrument within the period established by OWEB .     

 ( 5 ) If the applicant is requesting loan repayment, then the application must include the fully executed loan agreement if in place or a draft of the agreement if the loan is not yet incurred .   

 ( 6 ) The application must include a d emonstration of Water System and/or well ownership and authority to use the water ( i.e., hold s pertinent water right or has legal access to pertinent water right).   

 ( 7 ) The application must show p roperty proximity to drinking water intake and/or wells and confirmation of location fully or partially within a Drinking Water Source Area.   

 ( 8 ) Applicants must provide the S ource W ater A ssessment of the Drinking Water Source Area and explain how the proposed P roject w i ll address the risk(s) identified in the Source Water Assessment , including:   

 (a) A d escription of land uses or activities that potentially result in pollution and may pose significant threat to water quality.   

 (b) A d escription of which pollutant(s) will be addressed.   

 (c) A d escription of how the protection, restoration, or enhanc e ment of lands accomplished by the proposed Protective Instrument will reduce risk or pollutant load to the drinking water source.   

 (d) A m ap of the proximity of the la nd parcel and potential sources of pollution to sensitive areas for the drinking water source .   

 (e) For groundwater-supplied Drinking Water Source Areas, a description of the hydrologic or soil characteristics of the source area that potentially allow the transport of contaminants to the well.   

 ( 9 ) For Projects that provide water quantity benefits to a Drinking Water Source Area, the application must describe how the proposed Protective Instrument will protect or restore water storage capacity and/or base flow for the drinking water source .   

 ( 10 ) Applications must include a description of community characteristics of the population served by the W ater S upplier , including information about the following:   

 (a) W hether there are seasonal variations in the number of users and the impacts that has on the W ater S ystem ;   

 (b) W hether drought or low water supply has impacted the Water System ; and   

 ( c ) I nformation that demonstrate s whether the W ater S upplier is economically distressed due to :   

 (A) S mall population size ;   

 (B) T he population served by the W ater S upplier is lower income ; or    

 (C) T he Water Supplier serves a rural community .     

 ( 1 1 ) If a C onservation E asement or an estate in fee simple absolute transaction is not propose d , the application must explain the reasoning for the Protective Instrument propose d and the reasoning for the P roject duration if less than perpetual .   

 (1 2 ) Applications must include documentation of an existing Long-Term Management Plan or the intent to develop a Long-Term Management Plan that incorporates measures targeted at maintaining or enhancing drinking water quality and/or quantity. If a Long-Term Management Plan does not exist or is not proposed, justification and rationale must be provided about why a Long-Term Management Plan is not necessary given the type of Protective Instrument proposed.   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 448.370(7) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 448.370 - 448.380 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OWEB 1-2024, adopt filed 07/26/2024, effective 08/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
