



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-0800 
 ONB Program Capacity 
 
 (1) A certified ONB program may only care for children in areas approved by DELC. 
(2) A certified ONB program’s licensed capacity is based on the licensed outdoor classroom space within the natural space licensed for use by children.   
(a) There must be a minimum of 4,000 square feet of natural space per child to support a nature-based curriculum, unless otherwise approved by DELC. 
(b) An outdoor classroom area must have a minimum of 75 square feet of space in that area per child, not including bathroom or diaper changing spaces or ground space occupied by shelves, sheds, or other equipment not intended to be accessible to children. 
(3) For purposes of determining capacity, DELC will consider the factors and requirements described in this subsection. 
(a) Unless otherwise approved by DELC, the licensed space of another certified ONB program or educational program that regularly operates at the same time will not be considered in the licensed space calculations for the area that is being licensed; 
(c) The facilities on the premises, such as emergency shelters and toilets, must be sufficient to support the health, safety, and biological needs of all enrolled children; 
(d) The age range of children requested or approved by DELC to attend the certified ONB program; 
(e) If an indoor space will be used to meet the children's biological needs, those spaces: 
(A) Must be inspected and approved by the appropriate fire code official and environmental health specialist; and  
(B) May be used to provide children with transitional activities while the biological needs of other children are met in order to meet supervision requirements and keep children together. 
(4) A certified ONB program must have DELC approval prior to using any new outdoor classroom space or natural space to care for children. 
(5) A certified ONB program must not exceed its licensed capacity at any time, including the total number of children in care both at and away from the ONB program. 
(6) The following spaces or areas must not be included in the capacity determination: 
(a) Unlicensed space; 
(b) Emergency shelter space that will only be used in case of emergency; 
(c) Toileting facilities; 
(d) Restricted land; and 
(e) Roadways through parks. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
