



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 245 PERSONNEL SERVICE LICENSES 
 584-245-0140 
 Emergency School Counselor License 
 
 (1) Purpose: An Emergency School Counselor License qualifies its holder to provide counseling support services in Oregon schools. The Emergency School Counselor License is issued to persons who demonstrate adequate qualifications to receive a school counselor license on an emergency basis. An Emergency School Counselor License may be issued when a school district demonstrates extenuating circumstances that merit the issuance of the license in order to protect the district's programs or students. The Emergency School Counselor License is designed for short-term licensure only and may not continue once the emergency situation has been remedied. 

 (2) District Sponsorship: The Emergency School Counselor License requires district sponsorship. The sponsoring district must submit a statement: 

 (a) Explaining the urgent circumstances that constitute the emergency and how the qualifications of the applicant will resolve the emergency; 

 (b) Verifying the urgent circumstances that prevents hiring of a suitable counselor who holds an unrestricted school counselor license; 

 (c) Assuring the Commission that the district will obtain the license prior to assignment within the district; and 

 (d) Requesting and identifying the least amount of time necessary to meet the emergency needs of the district. 

 (3) Granting of a License: Upon filing a correct and complete application in the form and manner prescribed by the Commission, a qualified applicant and a co-applicant district may be granted an Emergency School Counselor License. 

 (a) An Emergency School Counselor License shall be issued solely at the discretion of the Executive Director or designee for any length of time deemed necessary to protect the district's programs or students. 

 (b) The Executive Director may consider efforts the educator has made in meeting licensure requirements. Additionally, the Executive Director will consider academic preparation or experience the proposed educator has had in the area in which the district is requesting the license. 

 (c) Generally, failure to meet renewal requirements does not constitute an emergency or extenuating circumstances. 

 (d) In most cases, an Emergency School Counselor License will expire on June 30 of the academic year in which the license was granted regardless of the term for licensure. Extending the license beyond the June 30 expiration date is at the discretion of the Executive Director after considering all extenuating circumstances. 

 (4) Applying for the license: To be eligible to apply for the Emergency School Counselor License an applicant must provide the following: 

 (a) Possess the personal qualifications for licensure including attainment of at least eighteen years of age; possessing good moral character; and mental and physical health necessary for employment as an educator; 

 (b) Provide a statement from the sponsoring district in accordance with section (2) of this rule; 

 (c) Complete a background clearance that includes: 

 (A) Furnishing fingerprints, as required by ORS 342.223; and 

 (B) Providing satisfactory responses to character questions in the form and manner prescribed by the Commission; and 

 (d) Submit a complete and correct application in the form and manner required by the Commission, including payment of all required fees as provided in OAR 584-200-0050. 

 (e) An applicant may be asked to provide a resume, official transcripts or other evidence of qualifications if requested by the Executive Director or Director of Licensure. 

 (5) Continuing Applicant Licensure: 

 (a) The Emergency School Counselor License is not subject to the 120 days allowed for licensure renewal purposes under ORS 342.127. A new application and fee are required for the license the applicant must qualify for once the Emergency License has expired. 

 (b) It is the applicant’s responsibility to apply for the subsequent license in a timely manner in order to ensure that the applicant remains licensed. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342.165 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.125, ORS 342.136, ORS 342.138 & ORS 342.165 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 18-2021, adopt filed 11/15/2021, effective 01/03/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
