



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Driver and Motor Vehicle Services Division - Chapter 735 
 
 
 
 
 Division 18 ACCEPTANCE AND VERIFICATION OF INFORMATION SUBMITTED BY ELECTRONIC MEANS 
 735-018-0180 
 Emergency Contact 
 
 (1) This emergency contact rule implements Oregon Laws 2021, chapter 465.  The rule describes the process for submitting emergency contact information to DMV for use by law enforcement during or after an emergency situation, as defined in Oregon Laws 2021, chapter 465.  

 (2) Any individual who has a DMV driver record, as described in ORS 802.200(8), may provide contact information for use in an emergency situation.  A parent or legal guardian of an individual who is an unmarried minor and not emancipated may provide contact information on behalf of the minor individual.      

 (3) The Emergency Contact Information form is available at any DMV office, or it can be printed by going to www.oregondmv.com, or an online version can be obtained at DMV2U.oregon.gov. 

 (4) An individual may submit a completed Emergency Contact Information form: 

 (a) Using the online Emergency Contact Information form at DMV2U.oregon.gov; 

 (b) By mailing the form to DMV Headquarters, PO Box 12745, Salem, OR 97309-0745; 

 (c) By faxing the form to (503) 581-7182; or 

 (d) At any DMV field office. 

 (5) Emergency contact information submitted online at https://DMV2U.oregon.gov may be seen by a police officer immediately after the submission. When a paper version of the completed Emergency Contact Information form is submitted to DMV, the emergency contact information will not be visible to a police officer until after the information is entered into DMV’s computer system by DMV staff. 

 (6) The Emergency Contact Information form contains the following: 

 (a) A place to provide: 

 (A) The individual’s full name; 

 (B) The individual’s date of birth; 

 (C) The individual’s driver license, driver permit or identification card number; 

 (D) The individual’s residence address; 

 (E) The individual’s email address; 

 (F) The individual’s phone number; and 

 (G) Up to two emergency contacts for the individual, including each emergency contact’s full name and phone number.  Additionally, the individual may provide their relationship to the emergency contact and the emergency contact’s residence address. 

 (b) A space for the signature of the individual or the parent or guardian completing the emergency contact information on behalf of the individual. The form states the individual is certifying to the following: 

 (A) The individual is providing the information voluntarily; 

 (B) Acknowledging the accuracy and completeness of the information supplied on the form is the sole responsibility of the individual, and that DMV will not cross-reference or research identifying or contact information; 

 (C) The individual authorizes the disclosure to, and use of, the emergency contact information by police officers, during or after an emergency situation, for purposes of contacting those listed about the location and general condition of the individual; 

 (D) If the individual is an unmarried minor who is not emancipated, at least one emergency contact is a parent or guardian of the individual; and 

 (E) The emergency contacts listed are individuals who are 18 years of age or older; 

 (c) A space for the individual to insert the date of completion. 

 (d) An option to remove emergency contact information from the individual’s driver record. 

 (e) Instructions for completion and submission. 

 (7)  DMV may not accept an Emergency Contact Information form that is unsigned or lacks sufficient information to identify the correct driver record of the individual. 

 (8) The emergency contacts provided on the Emergency Contact Information form will remain on the individual’s driving record until the individual submits a new Emergency Contact Information form in accordance with section (4) of this rule. 

 (9) A police officer, during or after an emergency situation, for purposes of contacting those listed about the location and general condition of the individual, may request the individual’s emergency contacts information by submitting a request through the DMV and law enforcement data system (LEDS) computer system interface. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.619, 802.010 & Oregon Laws 2021, Chapter 465 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Oregon Laws 2021, Chapter 465 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMV 23-2021, adopt filed 11/23/2021, effective 11/23/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
