



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Revenue 
 Chapter 150 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 307 PROPERTY SUBJECT TO TAXATION 
 150-307-0465 
 Dairy Definition for Determining Exempt Status of On-Site Processing Equipment 
 
 (1) Definitions: 

 (a) “Dairy” means a farm or the department of farming that is concerned with the production of milk, butter, cheese or other dairy products (from a cow or other domestic animal, such as a goat). 

 (b) “Dairy Products” means butter; all varieties of cheese; frozen dessert mixes containing milk; cream or nonfat milk solids; evaporated, condensed, concentrated, powdered, dried or fermented milk; whey; cream and skimmed milk. 

 (c) “Off-site” means all dairying related activities not located or occurring at the site of the dairy. 

 (d) “On-site” means all dairying related activities located or occurring at the site of the dairy. 

 (e) “Processing” means altering or modifying raw milk in any way to produce dairy products for human consumption. 

 (f) “Site” means a farm, whether a single parcel or several contiguous parcels under common ownership in a location whose zoning permits farming that is used for an integrated purpose and appraised as a single unit, whether that property is taxed as a single account or multiple accounts. 

 (2) All machinery and equipment in on-site use or held for such use for the raising of dairy animals, or the processing, storage, and sale of milk or dairy products, up until the point it is first sold or otherwise leaves the site, is exempt from taxation. 

 (3) For a dairy that uses off-site operations for the processing, storage and/or sale of milk or dairy products, the equipment used off-site is taxable, unless otherwise exempt. Only equipment used on-site up until the milk or dairy product is sold or otherwise leaves the on-site dairy is exempt from taxation under this rule. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 305.100 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 307.394 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REV 4-2025, adopt filed 07/16/2025, effective 07/16/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
