



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS 
 581-017-1000 
 Special Education Staff Stipend Grants 
 
 (1) The following definitions will be used in this section: 

 (a) “Significant Special Education Support” means if 75 percent or more of the educator’s or employee’s student caseload consists of students who have an Individualized Education Program. 

 (b) “Classified School Employee” includes all employees of a school district except those for whom a teaching or administrative license is required as a basis for employment in a school district. 

 (c) “Individualized Education Program” has the meaning provided in ORS 343.035. 

 (d) “Licensed Educator” means a teacher, administrator or other school professional who is licensed, registered or certified by the Teacher Standards and Practices Commission. 

 (e) “Salary” has the meaning given that term in ORS 653.010. 

 (f) “School District” means: 

 (A) A school district as defined in ORS 330.003. 

 (B) An education service district. 

 (C) The Oregon School for the Deaf. 

 (D) A public charter school as defined in ORS 338.005. 

 (E) An educational program under the Youth Corrections Education Program and Juvenile Detention Education Program. 

 (g) “Department” is the Oregon Department of Education. 

 (h) “Direct Relationship” means a relationship where the ESD or District directly employs a Qualified Staff member. 

 (i) “EGMS” is the Department’s Electronic Grant Management System. 

 (j) “Qualified/Qualifying Staff” means a Licensed Educator or Classified School Employee who provides Significant Special Education Support and who are in a Direct Relationship with a District or ESD. 

 (2) The purpose of the Special Education Staff Stipend Grant is to provide a one - time stipend to Qualifying Staff. 

 (3) The Department shall allocate funds to School Districts as follows: 

 (a) The Department shall draft an intergovernmental agreement and School Districts shall execute the intergovernmental agreement with the Department before receiving any grant funds. 

 (b) The Department will provide a form requesting the number of Qualifying Staff from each School District and confirm the final count with School Districts via email. 

 (4) School Districts shall apply for the Special Education Staff Stipend Grant as follows: 

 (a) School Districts will update Qualifying Staff numbers using the correct form as posted on the Department’s website. 

 (b) School Districts will provide any additional information required by the Department to administer the Special Education Staff Stipend Grant. 

 (c) Submitting a form shall indicate the District is applying to receive funds. 

 (d) If the School District does not submit the form by the required date, the School District will no longer be able to receive grant funds. 

 (5) Once the form has been submitted and approved, the Department will calculate a total amount of funds that will be allotted per Qualifying Staff. This amount will be published on the Department’s website before claims are accepted. 

 (6) The grant funds will be calculated by dividing the total grant funds by the total number of submitted Qualifying Staff from School Districts. 

 (7) The Department will allocate the funds: 

 (a) To each individual School District that applied by multiplying the amount of funds per position by the number of Qualifying Staff. 

 (b) School Districts will submit a claim through EGMS (or the expected replacement system intended for the same purpose) for the total amount of the stipends for all Qualifying Staff by the deadline specified on the Department website. Claims will begin to be accepted at a date posted on the Department’s website. 

 (8) A School District may make a one-time payment in addition to the Qualifying Staff’s salary or hourly wage based on the “per person” amount published by the Department on the Department’s website, notwithstanding ORS 652.220. 

 (9) A salary or wage increase specified in 5b is exclusive of health benefits and other benefits the School District provides to Qualifying Staff or that are otherwise required under the laws of this state. 

 (10) School Districts must distribute funds to intended recipients by June 30, 2025, or the close of the 2024-2025 school year, whichever is earlier. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  SB 5506: Section 90 (2023) & SB 5701 (2024) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  SB 283: Section 5 (2023) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 57-2024, adopt filed 10/25/2024, effective 10/25/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
