



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
   Temporary rule language in effect until 12/18/2026. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Business Development Department 
 Chapter 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 100 INDUSTRIAL SITE LOAN FUND PROGRAM 
 123-100-0030 
 Eligible Projects and Project Costs 
 
 (1) Only Development Projects and Planning Projects are eligible to receive financial assistance under the Program. 

 (2) To be eligible for financial assistance under the Program, Development Projects must (1) be directly owned and operated by the Project Sponsor or subject to a management contract or an operating agreement to which the Project Sponsor is a party and (2) must occur upon, or directly serve, land zoned for industrial use. 

 (3) Eligible Development Project costs include: 

 (a) Property acquisition and assembly costs associated with creating large development parcels, including any easement or right of way directly related to and necessary for a Development Project; 

 (b) Transportation improvements such as access roads, rail spurs and sidings, marine facility access, airport facilities necessary to provide Industrial Land access, intersections, turning lanes, signals, sidewalks, curbs, transit stops and storm drains; 

 (c) Infrastructure for providing broadband, electric power, natural gas, water and sewer service; 

 (d) Natural resource mitigation; 

 (e) Land grading activities; 

 (f) Environmental remediation and mitigation activities to remediate Brownfields properties, in accordance with state and federally approved remediation plans; 

 (g) Direct Project management costs to third party contractors; 

 (h) Costs of consultant services and expenses; 

 (i) Construction costs and expenses; 

 (j) Costs of acquiring off-site property for purposes directly related to a Development Project, including, but not limited to, wetland mitigation, and 

 (k) Other costs the Department determines to be necessary or useful for the Project. 

 (l) Pre-award Project costs incurred within 180 days of the Notice of Award. 

 (m) Interest-Carrying Costs. 

 (4) A Development Project that consists solely of the purchase or acquisition of land, is only eligible if the land is: 

 (a) Identified in an applicable land use or capital plan as necessary for a potential Industrial Land Development Project; or 

 (b) Zoned solely for industrial use. 

 (5) Eligible Planning Project costs include necessary planning, engineering, legal and other professional services associated with: 

 (a) The preparation of applications for local, state and federal permits and related administrative costs (e.g. printing, mailing, notary fees). Administrative costs do not include wages for Project Sponsor employees performing Project related job duties. 

 (b) Carrying out the Project and related administrative costs, (e.g. printing, mailing, notary fees). Administrative costs do not include wages for Project Sponsor employees performing Project related job duties. 

 (c) Other costs that the Department determines to be necessary or useful for the Project. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 285B.034 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 285B.032 - 285B.046 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 13-2026, temporary adopt filed 06/22/2026, effective 06/22/2026 through 12/18/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
