



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Higher Education Coordinating Commission 
 Office of Student Access and Completion - Chapter 575 
 
 
 
 
 Division 7 CRIMINAL RECORDS CHECK RULES 
 575-007-0270 
 National Criminal Records Check Process 
 
 (1) National Criminal Records Check. In addition to an Oregon check (OAR 575-007-0250), a national criminal records check will be required by the Commission under any of the following circumstances:  (a) Out-of-State Residency. The subject individual has lived outside Oregon for 60 or more consecutive days during the previous five (5) years.  (b) Out-of-State Residency for Postsecondary Students. During the previous five (5) years, the subject individual has lived outside Oregon for 90 or more consecutive days or for more than one academic term or semester as part of a study-abroad program, an academic exchange, extended research project, or a similar program or activity.  (c) Criminal History Outside Oregon. The LEDS check, or any other information obtained by the Commission, indicates there may be criminal history outside of Oregon, or the subject individual self-discloses criminal history outside of Oregon.  (d) Identity or History Questioned. The social security number appears not to be valid or is not provided to the Commission on the OSAC Criminal Records Request form, the subject individual has no Oregon driver's license or Oregon identification card, or the Commission has other reason to question the identity or history of the subject individual.  (e) Required by Other Laws or Regulations. A check is required by federal or state laws or regulations, other rules adopted by the Commission, or by contract or written agreement with the Commission.  (2) Additionally, a national criminal records check on a subject individual may be required by the Commission if based on the nature of the position or other relevant factors the Authorized Designee deems it necessary.  (3) Fingerprinting a Juvenile. Consent of the parent or guardian is required to obtain fingerprints from a child under the age of 18 years.  (4) Processing. The subject individual must complete and submit a fingerprint card when requested by the Commission.  (a) Fingerprint Cards. The subject individual must complete and return a fingerprint card (example: FBI Form FD 258) provided by the Commission.  (b) Time Frame for Return. The card must be completed and returned within 7 days of the request to the contact person to avoid closure of application pursuant to OAR 575-007-0320(5)(d).  (c) Extension. The Commission may extend the time allowed for return of the fingerprint card for good cause.  (5) Additional Information Required. In order to conduct a national check and complete a fitness determination, the Commission or the authorized designee may require additional information from the subject individual as necessary, such as but not limited to proof of identity, residential history, names used while living at each residence, or additional criminal, judicial, or other background information. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 348; Ch. 730 2005 OL & HB. 2157 2005 OL 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Ch. 730 2005 OL 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSAC 4-2006, f. & cert. ef. 11-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
