



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Administrative Services 
 Chapter 125 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 125 STATEWIDE FACILITY PLANNING PROCESS 
 125-125-0310 
 Capitol Planning Commission 
 
 (1) The Capitol Planning Commission shall consist of nine members, as follows: 
(a) Four members shall be appointed by the Governor; 
(b) One member shall be the Mayor of the City of Salem or the designee of the mayor; 
(c) One member shall be the chairperson of the Salem Planning Commission or a member of the planning commission who is designated by the chairperson; 
(d) One member shall be the Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services or the designee of the director; 
(e) One member, who shall be an advisory member without vote, shall be the President of the Senate or a person serving in the Senate who is designated by the President; and 
(f) One member, who shall be an advisory member without vote, shall be the Speaker of the House of Representatives or a person serving in the House of Representatives who is designated by the Speaker. 
(2) Of the four members of the Commission appointed by the Governor under subsection (1) of this section: 
(a) At least two members must be residents of Marion County or Polk County. Of the members who are residents of Marion County or Polk County, at least one member must be a resident of the City of Salem. 
(b) Only one member may be employed by a public body as defined in ORS 174.109. 
(3) The term of office of the four members of the Commission appointed by the Governor is four years, but each such member shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor. 
(4) A vacancy in the office of any of the four members of the Commission appointed by the Governor shall be filled by the Governor by appointment for the unexpired term. 
(5) The Commission shall elect a chairperson and a vice chairperson, who shall serve as officers for a term of two years and may be reelected. 
(6) Members of the Capitol Planning Commission who are not members of the Legislative Assembly are entitled to compensation and expenses as provided in ORS 292.495. Members of the Commission who are members of the Legislative Assembly shall be paid compensation and expense reimbursement as provided in ORS 171.072, payable from funds appropriated to the Legislative Assembly. 
(7) The Oregon Department of Administrative Services shall provide staffing and other resources required by the Commission to carry out the Commission’s duties. 
(8) The Commission shall adopt administrative rules necessary for the performance of the Commission’s duties. 
(9) The Capitol Planning Commission shall meet at the call of the chairperson or at such times that a majority of the commission members considers appropriate. The Governor may call the Commission to meet at any time requested by the Oregon Department of Administrative Services. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 276.055 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 276.055 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DAS 4-2023, adopt filed 09/26/2023, effective 10/01/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
