



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 90 RECYCLING AND WASTE REDUCTION 
 340-090-0660 
 Collection Targets 
 
 (1) Collection Targets Generally. A collection target or collection rate is a percentage of total amount of a material generated and is calculated using weight. 

 (a) For each material on the producer responsibility organization recycling acceptance list pursuant to OAR 340-090-0630(3), for which collection targets are established, a producer responsibility organization must report, in the annual report required under ORS 459A.887, the weight of collected materials, an estimate of the weight of materials generated, and the ratio of the two, where the weight of collected materials is the numerator and the estimate of weight of materials generated is the denominator. For materials without collection targets only the weight of collected materials must be reported. 

 (b) A collection rate will be calculated by dividing the weight of materials collected (numerator) by the weight of the materials generated (denominator). 

 (c) A producer responsibility organization must document all data sources, references, assumptions and calculations used in calculating collection rates. When estimating the weight of materials generated, a producer responsibility organization must consider data provided by DEQ, its own collection records, and other weight-based data, in addition to sales data reported to it by its members. 

 (d) The calculation of the numerator in the collection rate may only include the weight of materials targeted for collection and recycling, and may not include the weight of contamination. 

 (e) Unless otherwise specified in this rule, the numerator in a producer responsibility organization’s collection rate calculation may only include the weight of materials collected by the producer responsibility organization (including any party operating under contract to or at the direction of the producer responsibility organization). 

 (f) As part of its annual report, a producer responsibility organization must demonstrate that it has met the collection target for each material, and if not, the reasons for not meeting the collection target and the specific actions the producer responsibility organization proposes to implement to achieve the collection target. 

 (2) Materials-Specific Collection Targets. Materials shall have the following collection targets: 

 (a) Glass. The collection target for glass will be 45 percent and will be calculated as follows: 

 (A) The numerator is all glass packaging collected at producer responsibility organization depots or other collections as provided under ORS 459A.896(1) and all glass collected by local governments or their designated service providers (for example on-route collection). 

 (B) The denominator is all glass packaging (bottles and jars) generated in Oregon, less bottle bill collections. 

 (b) Other materials. A producer responsibility organization must propose collection targets for other materials each time it submits a program plan for approval. Other materials that a producer responsibility organization must propose collection targets for include those identified in OAR 340-090-0630(3)(a), (b), (d), (e), and (g) – (j). When proposing collection targets for those materials, a producer responsibility organization must describe existing collection quantities and compare proposed targets against existing and recent historic collection quantities. The producer responsibility organization must provide a projection on the number of participants and the quantity of material to be collected on a per-participant basis as well as per collection point. In program plans after the first plan, a producer responsibility organization shall discuss how changes in population served and number of collection points, if any, were taken into account when proposing new collection targets. When proposing collection targets for plastic materials, a producer responsibility organization must describe how the proposed collection target will contribute towards the achievement of plastics recycling goals as contained in ORS 459A.926. In program plans after the first plan, the producer responsibility organization must propose an increase in the collection target for these select other materials or provide a justification and explanation for why it is not proposing an increase. A producer responsibility organization may propose one combined collection target and report one combined collection rate for materials identified in OAR 340-090-0630(3)(h) and (i). 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 459A.975 & 468.020 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 459A.860 - 459A.975 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 18-2023, adopt filed 11/17/2023, effective 11/17/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
