



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 305 CERTIFIED CHILD CARE CENTERS 
 414-305-0830 
 Toilets, Sinks, and Bathing 
 
 (1)    A certified child care center must provide smooth, washable, easily-cleanable walls and floors in the toileting and handwashing areas. 
(2)    A certified child care center must provide toilets that: 
(a)    Are supplied with toilet paper; 
(b)    Have doors that can be unlocked from the outside with an opening device readily accessible to staff, if equipped with doors; and 
(c)    Provide privacy for school-age children, such as being screened, equipped with doors, or having children take turns while supervision is maintained. 
(3)    A certified child care center must have handwashing sinks that:  
(a)    Have hot and cold running water; 
(b)    Have mixing faucets if the center’s certification was in effect on July 15, 2001 and when toilet facilities are remodeled; 
(c)    If self-closing metered faucets are used, provide water flow for at least 15 seconds without the need to reactivate the faucet. Centers with certification in effect on July 15, 2001 must comply with the water flow requirement for self-closing metered faucets and when toilet facilities are remodeled; 
(d)    Have water that does not exceed 120°F; 
(e)    Have liquid soap and paper towels within easy reach of children and dispensed in a sanitary manner with a trash container. Other hand drying options must be approved by the environmental health specialist; and 
(f)    Are not used for preparation of food or drinks, dish washing, rinsing soiled clothing, cleaning equipment that is used for toileting, or for the disposal of any wastewater used in cleaning the center. 
(4)    When plumbing is unavailable to provide a handwashing sink, a certified child care center may provide a handwashing sink using a portable water supply and a sanitary catch system, with a written plan approved by a local public health department. A mechanism must be in place to prevent children from gaining access to soiled water or more than one child from washing in the same water. 
(5)     A certified child care center must have a bathtub, bathinette, plastic basin, or similar size shallow sink available for bathing children. 
(a)    If a certified child care center has a bathtub or shower, the area in and around a bathtub or shower must be resistant to slipping or equipped with a grab bar. 
(b)    The bathtub or shower must be inaccessible to children when not in use. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELD 10-2023, adopt filed 06/28/2023, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
