



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 12 PUBLIC RECORDS 
 350-012-0060 
 Response to Public Records Requests 
 
 (1) The Gorge Commission will respond to a request for public records within five business days by: 

 (a) Providing the records if the records are of a nature permitting copying, or a reasonable opportunity to inspect or copy the record; 

 (b) Providing an internet address and link to the records on the Gorge Commission’s website; except that if the requester notifies the Gorge Commission that they cannot access the records through the internet, then the Gorge Commission must provide copies of the record or allow the requester to view copies using an agency computer; 

 (c) Acknowledging that the Gorge Commission has received the request and providing a reasonable estimate of the time the Gorge Commission will require to respond to the request; 

 (d) Acknowledging that the Gorge Commission has received the request, asking the requestor to provide clarification for a request that is unclear, and providing to the greatest extent possible, a reasonable estimate of the time the Gorge Commission will require to respond to the request once clarified. If the requestor fails to clarify the request within ten business days, the Gorge Commission need not respond to it and will close the request; or 

 (e) Denying the public record request. 

 (2) The Gorge Commission may, in its sole discretion, propose a search and disclosure plan specifying search terms, record locations, form of the records, clarifications to the initial request, and other material information. The Gorge Commission will share any search and disclosure plan with the requestor to confirm that the plan responds to the initial or clarified request. 

 (3) Additional time required to respond to a request may be based upon the need to further clarify the request, locate and assemble the information requested, minimize interference with or disruption to other essential Gorge Commission functions, notify third persons or agencies affected by the request, or determine whether any of the information requested is exempt and that a redaction or denial should be made as to all or part of the request. 

 (4) The Gorge Commission will process requests in the order in which they are received. The Gorge Commission may modify this approach as necessary to ensure that requests that seek larger volumes of records, require closer review, or are otherwise more time consuming, do not unreasonably delay simpler, more routine requests. 

 (5) When it appears that the number of records responsive to a request may be large, that the process of locating, assembling, or reviewing the records may be lengthy, or that it is otherwise appropriate, the Gorge Commission may choose to provide records on a partial or installment basis. The Gorge Commission need not locate and assemble records responsive to a subsequent installment until the previous installment is claimed or inspected. If an installment is not claimed or inspected within ten business days of notice of availability, the Gorge Commission need not respond further and will close the request. 

 (6) When electronic records are requested. 

 (a) The Gorge Commission will provide copies of electronic records in the form requested, if available. If the public record is not available in the form requested, the Gorge Commission will provide the record in the form in which it is maintained or, at Gorge Commission’s discretion, in a format that is reasonably translatable from the format in which the Gorge Commission keeps the records. 

 (b) When metadata is requested, the Gorge Commission will provide the records in a native file format that preserves metadata where technically feasible. Metadata may be unavailable for records that require conversion to a nonnative format in order to provide or to apply exemptions. 

 (c) If the Gorge Commission translates a record into an alternative electronic format at the request of a requestor, the copy created does not constitute the creation of a new public record for purposes of this chapter. Scanning paper records to make electronic copies of such records is a method of copying paper records and does not constitute the creation of a new public record. 

 (d) The Gorge Commission may use reasonable procedures and technology necessary for the protection of electronic records and to prevent interference with the regular discharge of duties of the Gorge Commission. 

 (7) The Gorge Commission shall not deny a request for identifiable public records solely on the basis that the request is overbroad. 

 (8) If a public record request is made at a time when such record exists but is scheduled for destruction in the near future, the Gorge Commission shall retain possession of the record, and may not destroy or erase the record until the request is resolved. 

 (9) Costs of Providing Public Records 

 (a) The Gorge Commission does not charge a fee for the inspection of public records or locating public documents and making them available for copying. 

 (b) The Gorge Commission may charge a reasonable fee for providing copies of public records. The Gorge Commission declares for the following reasons that it would be unduly burdensome to calculate the actual costs it charges for providing copies of public records: Funds are not allocated for performing an initial study to calculate such actual costs and periodic updates to such a study, and the Gorge Commission lacks the necessary funds to perform a study and calculations; staff resources are insufficient to perform a study and to calculate such actual costs; and a study would interfere with and disrupt other essential agency functions. The Gorge Commission may charge fees for production of copies of public records, which includes shipping, consistent with the fee schedule as published on the Gorge Commission’s website at www.gorgecommission.org. 

 (c) The Gorge Commission will charge the actual amount charged by an external vendor for records copied or scanned by that vendor, including records in nonstandard sizes or formats. The Gorge Commission will also charge the actual amount of shipping records to and from the vendor and actual travel expenses, including mileage, tolls, and parking fees. The Gorge Commission will provide an estimate of the amount charged by the external vendor and shipping and travel costs. 

 (d) Before copying public records, the Gorge Commission may require a deposit of up to ten percent of the estimated costs of copying all of the records. The Gorge Commission may also require payment of the remainder of the copying costs before providing all of the records, or the payment of costs of copying an installment before providing the installment. 

 (e) At the Gorge Commission’s sole discretion, the Gorge Commission may provide customized electronic access to public records if the Gorge Commission estimates that the request would require the use of information technology expertise to prepare data compilations or provide customized electronic access services when such compilations and customized access services are not used by the Gorge Commission for other agency purposes. The Gorge Commission will charge the actual costs, including staff time, necessary to reimburse the agency for providing customized electronic access services. 

 (f) The Gorge Commission will not release any requested copies of public records unless and until the requestor has paid all copying and other charges as set forth in this section. 

 (g) The Gorge Commission may waive any charges for providing public records at the discretion of the Executive Director of the Gorge Commission. This determination will be made on a case-by-case basis at the Executive Director’s sole discretion. 

 (10) Denial of public records request. When the Gorge Commission denies a request for inspection of a public record in whole or part, it must provide a statement of the specific exemption from this division or other law authorizing the denial. 

 (11) Review of the Gorge Commission’s production of public records. 

 (a) A requestor who believes the Gorge Commission did not provide all responsive documents may petition the Executive Director to review the Gorge Commission’s production of public records. The written request must specify what records the requestor believes were omitted, if known, and the basis for the requestor’s belief that the Gorge Commission did not produce all responsive records. 

 (b) A requestor who objects to the denial of a request for a public record may petition the Executive Director to review the denial. The written request must identify the documents that were not produced, include the written statement which accompanied the denial and explain why the requestor believes the denial was in error. 

 (c) Requestors shall file a petition in accordance with subsections (a) or (b) of this section within 14 days after the date the requestor inspects the requested records at the Gorge Commission’s office, the date the Gorge Commission sends the records to the requestor, or the date of the denial of a request. Petitions pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be sent to the Executive Director of the Gorge Commission at the mailing or email address in 350-012-0040(2). 

 (d) The Executive Director shall consider the petition and either affirm or reverse the denial. Within five business days following receipt of the requestor’s petition for review, the Executive Director will notify the requestor of the decision or notify the requestor if more time is required to consider the petition. The Executive Director may delegate consideration of a petition to another member of the Gorge Commission staff. 

 (12) Protection of public records. 

 (a) Requestors may not remove any public record from the Gorge Commission's office. Requestors may remove copies of records that the Gorge Commission specifically provides to the requestor to take away from the Gorge Commission’s office. 

 (b) Requestors must have a designated Gorge Commission employee present while inspecting a public record. 

 (c) Requestors may not mark or deface a public record in any manner during inspection. 

 (d) Requestors may not dismantle or change the order of public records that are stapled, paper-clipped, or maintained in a notebook, file, or jacket, or in chronological or other filing order. 

 (e) Access to file cabinets, shelves, vaults, or other storage areas is restricted to Gorge Commission personnel unless other arrangements are made with the Executive Director. 

 (f) The right to inspect original public records does not require the Gorge Commission to allow inspection of an original record that contains some information exempt from disclosure. In such case, the Gorge Commission will provide a copy of the original with the exempt material redacted. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015 & 16 U.S.C. 544c(b) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015 & 16 U.S.C. 544c(b) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2026, adopt filed 07/22/2026, effective 09/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
