



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 16 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES 
 350-016-0070 
 Petitions Requesting Adoption of Rules 
 
 (1) An interested person may petition the Gorge Commission to request the Gorge Commission promulgate, amend, or repeal a rule. Not later than 60 days after the date of submission of a petition, the Gorge Commission shall: 

 (a) Deny the petition in writing stating the reasons for the denial, specifically addressing the concerns raised by the petitioner, and where appropriate the alternative means by which it will address the concerns raised by the petitioner; or 

 (b) Initiate rulemaking proceedings. 

 (2) A petition requesting the Gorge Commission to promulgate a new rule or amend a rule shall contain the proposed text of the rule. 

 (3) The Gorge Commission shall invite public comment on the petition, and shall specifically request public comment on alternatives to the petition for achieving the need expressed in the petition. 

 (4) In reviewing a petition subject to section (1) of this rule, the Gorge Commission shall consider: 

 (a) The continued need for the rule; 

 (b) The nature of complaints or comments received concerning the rule from the public; 

 (c) The complexity of the rule; 

 (d) The extent to which the rule overlaps, duplicates or conflicts with other state rules or federal regulations and, to the extent feasible, with local government regulations; 

 (e) The degree to which technology, economic conditions or other factors have changed in the subject area affected by the rule; and 

 (f) The statutory citation or legal basis for the rule. 

 (5) In petitioning for repeal or amendment of a rule under this section, a person is encouraged to address one or more of the following considerations: 

 (a) Whether the rule is authorized; 

 (b) Whether the rule is needed; 

 (c) Whether the rule conflicts with or duplicates other federal, state, or local laws; 

 (d) Whether alternatives to the rule exist that will serve the same purpose at less cost; 

 (e) Whether the rule applies differently to public and private entities; 

 (f) Whether the rule serves the purposes for which it was adopted; 

 (g) Whether the costs imposed by the rule are unreasonable; 

 (h) Whether the rule is clearly and simply stated; 

 (i) Whether the rule is different than a state or federal statute or regulation applicable to the same activity or subject matter without adequate justification; 

 (j) Whether the rule was adopted according to all applicable provisions of law; 

 (k) The nature of complaints or comments received concerning the rule from the public; 

 (l) The degree to which technology, economic conditions, or other factors have changed in the subject area affected by the rule. 

 (6) A petition to request the Gorge Commission promulgate, amend, or repeal a rule does not apply to the Management Plan required in 16 U.S.C. § 544d or any Gorge Commission ordinance enacted pursuant to 16 U.S.C. §§ 544e(c) or 544f( l ). 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015 & 16 U.S.C. 544c(b) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015 & 16 U.S.C. 544c(b) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2026, adopt filed 07/22/2026, effective 09/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
