



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Revenue 
 Chapter 150 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 323 CIGARETTE TAXES 
 150-323-0500 
 Tobacco Products and Inhalant Delivery System Retail Licensure: Application, Renewal, Fee 
 
 (1) Definitions 

 (a) The definitions in ORS 431A.190 apply to the terms used in this rule, in addition to the following definitions. 

 (b) “Annual DOR license application fee” means the fee adopted by the department in this rule to be paid by a retailer of tobacco products or inhalant delivery systems at the time that the retailer submits an application under this rule. 

 (c) “Application” includes the application form and any additional documentation or information requested by the department from a retailer to verify compliance with local law prior to issuance of a tobacco retail license. 

 (d) “Department” means the Oregon Department of Revenue. 

 (e) “Initial application” means the first application for a tobacco retail license from a retailer for the premises included in the application. 

 (f) “Local fee” means a fee adopted by a city or governing body of a local public health authority adopted by an ordinance to be paid by a retailer. 

 (g) “Local law” includes any ordinance or code enacted by the governing body of a local public health authority regulating the qualifications for engaging in the retail sale of tobacco products or of inhalant delivery systems. 

 (h) “Local tobacco retail license” means a valid license issued by a city or governing body of a local public health authority to a retailer. 

 (i) “Oregon Health Authority fee” means the fee adopted by the Oregon Health Authority to be paid by a retailer at the same time the annual DOR license application fee is paid. 

 (j) “Renewal application” means an application for a license from a retailer for the premises included in the application other than an initial application. 

 (k) “Retailer” means a person or entity, as that term is defined in ORS 60.001, that sells for consideration, offers for retail sale, holds for sale, or exchanges or offers to exchange tobacco products or inhalant delivery systems or that distributes free or low-cost samples of tobacco products or inhalant delivery systems from a premises. 

 (l) “Tobacco retail license” or “annual tobacco retail license” means a license issued by the department to a retailer for the sale of tobacco products or inhalant delivery systems. 

 (m) “Tobacco retail license fee” means the fee adopted by the department in this rule, any applicable Oregon Health Authority fee, and any local fee adopted by a city or governing body of a local public health authority where a retailer is located. 

 (2) Tobacco Retail License Initial Application 

 (a) An application for a tobacco retail license shall be submitted to the department on behalf of each retailer that is not subject to a local tobacco retail license issued by a city or governing body of a local public health authority. A retailer may not engage in the retail sale of tobacco products prior to receiving a tobacco retail license from the department. 

 (b) The department will not consider an application for a tobacco retail license complete until the department receives the payment of the tobacco retail license fee in full for each premises included on the application and any documentation required to be submitted to the department by the retailer to demonstrate compliance with local law regulating the qualifications for engaging in the retail sale of tobacco products or inhalant delivery systems. 

 (A) If a retailer submits an application for a tobacco retail license without payment of the tobacco retail license fee in full for each premises on the application the department will notify the retailer that the application is incomplete. 

 (B) If the retailer does not remit full payment of the tobacco retail license fee for each premises on the application within 14 calendar days from the date of the notice, the department will consider the application incomplete and refund any amount paid. 

 (C) A retailer required to possess a tobacco retail license may not engage in the retail sale of tobacco products or inhalant delivery systems until the department approves the completed application of the retailer and issues a tobacco retail license to the retailer. 

 (c) Completed applications for a tobacco retail license will be effective for a one-year period from the date the completed application is received, reviewed, and approved by the department through the end of the calendar month of the issuance date. 

 (3) Annual DOR License Application Fee. The department shall review the annual DOR license fee amount annually. The fee shall be calculated based on the effective date of the license and charged at the rate listed below. 

 (a) Application Effective Date: 

 (b) January 1, 2022, through December 31, 2025: $230; 

 (c) On or After January 1, 2026: $261. 

 (4) Tobacco Retail License Renewal Application. A retailer may apply for a renewal of their annual tobacco retail license beginning the first day of the calendar month of expiration. A retailer must submit the full tobacco license fee in effect at the time of renewal. 

 (5) Annual DOR License Application Fee Nonrefundable. If the Department issues a tobacco retail license to a retailer, then that annual DOR license application fee is nonrefundable. If the Department denies an initial or renewal application for a tobacco retail license, and that denial becomes final, then the Department will refund that annual DOR license application fee. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 305.100 & 431A.198 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 431A.198 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REV 10-2025, amend filed 12/23/2025, effective 01/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REV 14-2021, adopt filed 11/23/2021, effective 12/01/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
