



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 305 CERTIFIED CHILD CARE CENTERS 
 414-305-0650 
 Diaper Changing and Toileting 
 
 (1)    A certified child care center must change wet or soiled diapers promptly, checking children’s diapers at a minimum of every 2 hours, or more frequently to meet the individual child’s needs. Diapers must be changed when a child exhibits behavior that suggests a wet or soiled diaper. 
(2)    A certified child care center must provide at least one diaper-changing area in or adjacent to each room where children in diapers are part of the group.  
(a)    If infants or toddlers are part of a multi-age group, a diaper changing area must be located in the room being utilized for care.  
(b)    For preschool-age children who are toilet learning, the diaper changing area is not required to be in or adjacent to the classroom. 
(c)    There must be a handwashing sink with running, heated water in each diaper changing area, except that centers with certification initially issued on or before July 15, 2001 must comply with this requirement when the diaper changing area is remodeled. 
(d)    Liquid soap and single-use hand towels must be provided at each handwashing sink located in a changing area. 
(e)    The diaper changing surface must be sturdy, non-absorbent, and washable with no tears or repairs. 
(f)    A table or counter must be large enough to accommodate the length of a child, with protective edges or barriers that prevent a child from rolling or falling from the surface.  
(g)    A safety strap or harness must not be used on the diaper changing surface. 
(h)    Each surface used for diaper changing must be kept free of all objects except for diapering items and not used for other purposes. 
(i)    Children must never be left unattended on a changing surface. 
(j)    A disinfecting solution must be kept in each diaper-changing area ready for immediate use and stored out of children’s reach.  
(3)    A certified child care center must post and follow the diaper-changing procedure, including stand-up diapering, that has been approved by the environmental health specialist. 
(4)    A certified child care center must discuss the toilet learning plan and progress with parents and ensure that the plan is relaxed and pressure free. 
(5)    A certified child care center must place wet or soiled clothing or personal items in a sealed, labeled, moisture-proof bag to send home with the child. 
(6)    If a certified child care center uses cloth or reusable diapers, the soiled diapers must: 
(a)    Not be rinsed; 
(b)    Be placed in a securely sealed, moisture-proof bag; 
(c)    Be stored in a separate disposal container; and 
(d)    Be cleaned by a commercial laundry service or given daily to the child’s parent or guardian. 
(7)    A certified child care center must provide a container designated for disposing of soiled diapers and diapering supplies only. The diaper disposal container must be: 
(a)    Approved by the environmental health specialist; 
(b)    Lined with a disposable plastic trash bag; 
(c)    Within arm’s reach of the diaper changing area; and 
(d)    Emptied, cleaned and disinfected daily or more often as needed. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELD 10-2023, adopt filed 06/28/2023, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
