



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-0700 
 Behavior and Guidance 
 
 (1) A certified ONB program must have a written policy on behavior and guidance of children that is simple and understandable to the child, the parent(s), and all staff (also see OAR 414-320-0200, Policies). 
(2) A certified ONB program must have the behavior and guidance policy available in a prominent and frequently visited location for the parents and public to view. 
(3) A certified ONB program’s behavior and guidance policy must include the use of positive guidance to help children develop self-regulation, self-direction, and respect for others through these approaches: 
(a) Setting and teaching simple, consistent, clear and positive rules and limits that children can understand; 
(b) Setting up the environment for success with engaging activities that encourage positive behavior and self-regulation; 
(c) Following a predictable daily routine and schedule with planned transitions; 
(d) Reinforcing positive behaviors with encouragement and descriptive praise; 
(e) Supervising actively, taking steps to prevent problems before they occur and explaining safe, natural and logical consequences related to a child’s behavior; 
(f) Helping children recognize and appropriately express their feelings and understand the feelings of others; 
(g) Modeling and teaching social skills such as taking turns, cooperation, waiting, treating others kindly, and problem solving; and 
(h) Redirecting or helping a child change their focus to something appropriate when their behavior is unacceptable. 
(4) A certified ONB program must ensure that only staff shall provide guidance to a child. 
(5) A certified ONB program must provide guidance that is fair, consistently applied, timely, and appropriate to the behavior, age, and development of the child. 
(6)   If other methods have not been successful, a certified ONB program may remove a preschool or school-age child from an activity or group for the time needed to help them regulate their emotions or behavior. During this time, staff must use co-regulation strategies such as empathetic listening, guiding deep breathing, and offering a child access to a calming location. Once the child has regained emotional or physical regulation, they must be allowed to rejoin the group or ongoing activity. 
(7) A certified ONB program must have a policy that addresses how staff must proceed if a child is displaying inappropriate behaviors that could endanger themselves or the safety of others (see OAR 414-320-0200, Policies). 
(8) A certified ONB program must appropriately intervene to stop the unfair treatment of a child based on the individual child’s family, gender, race, ethnicity, economic status, ability, religion, or cultural background. Interventions may include, but are not limited to:  
(a) Redirecting an inappropriate conversation or behavior;  
(b) Being aware of situations that may involve unfair treatment of a child, responding appropriately, taking actions to prevent future occurrences; and  
(c) Refusing to ignore the unfair treatment. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
