



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 245 PERSONNEL SERVICE LICENSES 
 584-245-0300 
 Scope of School Social Worker License 
 
 The Social Worker License authorizes the holder to perform the following duties: 

 (1) Services to students: Providing crisis intervention. Developing intervention strategies to increase academic success.  Assisting with conflict resolution and anger management. Helping the child develop appropriate social interaction skills. Assisting the child in understanding and accepting self and others. Developing positive behavioral intervention strategies. As well as: 

 (a) Assessment: Psychosocial assessments identifying barriers (at a personal, family, social or school level) to learning and engagement; risk assessments; student and family counselling; advocacy; education and resourcing, consultation; referrals; crisis interventions. 

 (b) Casework: Co-ordination of supports for students with multiple and complex needs, including liaison with external organizations, advocacy on behalf of students to outside organizations. 

 (c) School-Wide Prevention Activities: Help develop and identify lessons in classrooms, teaching as needed, social emotional skill building including drug and alcohol, abuse and violence prevention and suicide prevention. Help coordinate and facilitate school wide activities pertaining to social-emotional and cultural needs of the community, students, and families. 

 (d) Group work : Development and implementation of therapeutic group work; prevention and early intervention programs; personal or social skills education groups for students; parent education. 

 (e) Special Education Services: Participating in special education assessment meetings as well as I ndividual Educational Planning Meetings. Addressing issues in a child's living situation that affect the child’s adjustment in school (i.e . home, school, and community). Preparing a social or developmental history on a child with a disability. Counseling (group, individual and/or family). Mobilizing family, school, and community resources to enable the child to learn as effectively as possible in his or her educational program. 

 (2) Services to parents and families: Working with parents to facilitate their support in their children's school adjustment. Alleviating family stress such as issues related to poverty domestic violence and mental health issues in order to enable the child to function more effectively in school and community. Assisting parents to access programs available to students with special needs. Assisting parents in accessing and utilizing school and community resources. 

 (3) Services to school personnel: Providing staff with essential information to better understand factors (cultural, social, economic, family, health, etc.) affecting a student’s performance and behavior. Assessing students with mental health concerns. Developing staff in-service training programs. Assisting teachers with behavior management. Providing direct support to staff. Advocacy, consultation and professional development with school staff with the aim of making schools’ more inclusive environments. Supporting students to advocate for appropriate resources and procedures. Assist in, or lead, the design, delivery, and implementation of schools and/or districts Comprehensive School Counseling Plan. 

 (4) School-community liaison: Obtaining and coordinating community resources to meet students' needs. Helping school districts receive adequate support from social and mental health agencies. Advocating for new and improved community/school service to meet the needs of students and families. Helping the system respond effectively to each child's needs. 

 (5) Services to districts: Assist in developing and implementing educational programs for children for exceptional children. Developing alternative programs for students with attendance concerns or involvement with the law. Identifying and reporting child abuse and neglect. Providing consultation regarding school law and school policy including IDEA and Section 504. Providing case management for students and families requiring multiple resources. 

 (6) Critical incident management: Emergency management and critical incidents response; interventions to reduce the negative impacts of traumatic incidents; planning for school responses; provision of psychological first aid, counselling and support; referrals and service coordination; monitoring recovery. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342.165 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.125, ORS 342.136, ORS 342.138 & ORS 342.165 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 18-2021, adopt filed 11/15/2021, effective 01/03/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
