



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 48 INDUSTRIAL HEMP 
 603-048-3260 
 Handler Requirements for Hemp Concentrate and Extract 
 
 (1) Hemp Concentrates or Extracts. A handler with a hemp concentrate or extract endorsement: 
(a) May not use Class I solvents as those are classified in the Federal Drug Administration Guidance, Table I, published in the Federal Register on December 24, 1997 (62 FR 67377, https://www.fda.gov/media/71737/download). 
(b) Must: 
(A) Only use a hydrocarbon-based solvent that is at least 99 percent purity. 
(B) Only use a non-hydrocarbon-based solvent that is food-grade. 
(C) Work in an environment with proper ventilation, controlling all sources of ignition where a flammable atmosphere is or may be present. 
(D) Use only potable water and ice made from potable water in processing OAR 603-025-0020(8). 
(E) If making a concentrate or extract that will be used in a hemp edible, be endorsed as a hemp edible handler OAR 603-048-3030. 
(2) Hemp Extracts. A handler with an endorsement to make hemp extracts: 
(a) May not use pressurized canned flammable fuel, including but not limited to butane and other fuels intended for use in camp stoves, handheld torch devices, refillable cigarette lighters, and similar consumer products. 
(b) Prior to licensure or renewal the applicant must: 
(A) Provide proof in a form and manner specified by the Department that the site proposed to be licensed has received a Certificate of Occupancy for the intended use issued by the appropriate local building official or fire marshal; 
(B) Must list all equipment used in extraction and, if applicable, provide proof that equipment and process has been inspected by a certified mechanical or electrical engineer. 
(c) Must: 
(A) Process in a fully enclosed room clearly designated on the current premises map of the handling site. 
(B) Process, if using hydrocarbon solvents, in a room with equipment, including all electrical installations that meet the requirements of the Oregon Structural Specialty Code, related Oregon Specialty Codes and the Oregon Fire Code. 
(C) Use a professional grade closed loop extraction system designed to recover the solvents and built to codes of recognized and generally accepted good engineering standards, such as those of: 
(i) American National Standards Institute (ANSI); 
(ii) Underwriters Laboratories (UL); or 
(iii) The American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM). 
(D) If using carbon dioxide in processing, use a professional grade closed loop carbon dioxide gas extraction system where every vessel is rated to a minimum of six hundred pounds per square inch. 
(E) For extraction system engineering services, including but not limited to consultation on and design of extraction systems or components of extraction systems, use the services of a professional engineer registered with the Oregon State Board of Examiners for Engineering and Land Surveying, unless an exemption under ORS 672.060 applies. 
(F) Have an emergency eye-wash station in any room in which extract is being processed. 
(G) Have all applicable material safety data sheets readily available to personnel working for the handler. 
(H) If subject to inspection by local and state fire officials, maintain the premises’ Certificate of Occupancy at intervals specified by the fire official. 
(3) Hemp Concentrates. A handler with an endorsement to make hemp concentrates: 
(a) May not: 
(A) Use denatured alcohol. 
(B) If using carbon dioxide, apply high heat or pressure. 
(b) Must only use or store dry ice in a well-ventilated room to prevent against the accumulation of dangerous levels of carbon dioxide. 
(c) May use: 
(A) A mechanical extraction process; or 
(B) A chemical extraction process using a nonhydrocarbon-based or other solvent, such as water, vegetable glycerin, vegetable oils, animal fats, isopropyl alcohol, or ethanol. 
(4) Violations. A violation of this rule is a Class I violation. 

 
 
 
 
 
 [ED. NOTE: To view attachments referenced in rule text, click here for PDF copy.] 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561.191, 571.263 & 571.281(9) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 571.260-571.348 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 5-2026, adopt filed 01/26/2026, effective 01/26/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
