



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 305 CERTIFIED CHILD CARE CENTERS 
 414-305-0910 
 Play Materials 
 
 (1)    A certified child care center must provide play equipment and materials that are: 
(a)    Appropriate to the developmental needs, interests and abilities of the children; 
(b)    Sturdy and free of sharp points or corners, splinters, protruding nails or bolts, loose or rusty parts, or paint that contains lead or other toxic materials; 
(c)    Have smooth, nonporous surfaces or washable fabric surfaces that are easy to clean and sanitize, or be disposable; 
(d)    In good condition; and 
(e)    Easily accessible to the children. 
(2)    A certified child care center must provide a shock-absorbing floor surface under and around indoor-climbing equipment and platforms over 18 inches in height that will effectively cushion the fall of a child. The surface must be installed in the use zone and maintained according to the manufacturer’s directions. 
(3)    A certified child care center must offer a quantity and variety of play materials (i.e., toys, books, and games) for each age group that is sufficient to:  
(a)    Avoid competition for popular items; 
(b)    Provide a variety of choices to each child; 
(c)    Provide a balance of: 
(A)    Active and quiet activities; and 
(B)    Individual and group activities; 
(d)    Meet the developmental needs of each group of children; and 
(e)    Provide the variety of activities required in OAR 414-305-0520, Activity Plan for All Children, as appropriate. 
(4)    A certified child care center must provide a variety of developmentally appropriate toys, materials and equipment which give children choices such as: 
(a)    Blocks; 
(b)    Fine motor activities; 
(c)    Writing utensils and materials; 
(d)    Books; 
(e)    Sensory experiences; 
(f)    Gross motor activities; 
(g)    Music; 
(h)    Art; 
(i)    Dramatic play; 
(j)    Science and/or exploration; and 
(k)    Discovery of nature. 
(5)    Activities that include a tool that could pose a safety risk (e.g., iron, glue gun, woodworking tool) are limited to preschool and school-age children.  
(a)    Staff must first instruct children in the tool’s proper use and safety measures.   
(b)    Staff must be within arm’s reach of the children participating in the activity to reduce the risk of injury.  
(6)    A certified child care center must provide culturally and racially diverse learning opportunities within the center’s curriculum, activities, and materials that represent all children, families, and staff.  
(a)    Equipment and materials that support diversity include, but are not limited to: 
(A)    Diverse dolls, books, pictures, games, or materials that do not reinforce stereotypes; 
(B)    Diverse music from many cultures in children's primary languages; and 
(C)    A balance of different ethnic and cultural groups, ages, abilities, family styles, and genders. 
(b)    A certified child care center must actively reflect on the learning opportunities provided in the program to broaden cultural understanding and representation of the cultural backgrounds of the children in the program. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELD 10-2023, adopt filed 06/28/2023, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
