



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Real Estate Agency 
 Chapter 863 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY WHOLESALING REGULATION 
 863-017-0025 
 Disclosure Requirements 
 
 (1) Covered Parties: Residential property wholesalers shall provide the residential property wholesaler written disclosure published on the Agency’s website: 
(a) To any potential buyers and sellers before entering into a written contract for a residential property wholesale transaction; 
(b) To any individual licensed under ORS 696.022 who is engaged to assist the residential property wholesaler in marketing or listing the property; 
(c) To any individual licensed under ORS 696.022 who is assisting a potential buyer in purchasing the property; and 
(d) In all advertising related to the residential property that is the subject of a residential property wholesale transaction. Advertising on social media is exempt from the requirements of this rule if the advertising links to a separate page that complies with this rule. 
(2) Standards for Proper Disclosure: The Real Estate Agency has established the standards for proper residential property wholesaler written disclosure requirements under this section. The disclosure must be in at least 10-point bold type and at a minimum must: 
(a) State that the residential property wholesaler or, if applicable, the entity on behalf of which the residential property wholesaler is conducting residential property wholesaling: 
(A) Is a residential property wholesaler; 
(B) Will only have or only has an equitable interest in the property being sold; 
(C) Will not have or does not have legal title to the property and therefore may not be able to directly transfer title to the buyer; 
(D) Might not be a licensed real estate broker or principal broker and therefore might not be permitted to engage in professional real estate activity; and 
(E) Might not be a licensed appraisal specialist and therefore might not be permitted to provide an opinion as to the value of the property. 
(b) Include the following plain language definition of equitable interest.: 
A person who has an "Equitable interest” in a property means someone that has contracted with the current owner for the right to buy the property at a later date even though they don’t have legal title. The contract may allow the equitable interest holder to sell or transfer the right to purchase the property to someone else prior to close of escrow. 
(c) Include the following statements: 
(A) A wholesaler may assign equitable interest to another party prior to closing for profit. 
(B) A seller or buyer who enters into a written contract for a residential property wholesale transaction may cancel the contract without penalty by delivery of a written notice of cancellation any time before 12 midnight at the end of the third business day after the receipt of the residential property wholesaler written disclosure. The right of cancellation may not be waived. Upon cancellation, all earnest money or deposits shall be returned to the person who provided the earnest money or deposit. 
(C) If the residential property wholesaler fails to provide a residential property wholesaler written disclosure to the seller before entering into a written contract for a residential property wholesale transaction, the seller may terminate the contract at any time without penalty and retain any earnest money or deposit paid to the seller or deposited in escrow by the residential property wholesaler. An escrow agent may disburse the earnest money or deposit to the seller without the need for separate written instructions from the residential property wholesaler if: 
(i) The seller in writing asserts that the residential property wholesaler written disclosure was not provided to the seller before entering into the written contract for the residential property wholesale transaction and demands disbursement to the seller of all deposits held by the escrow agent; and 
(ii) The seller has provided the escrow agent with a written release and indemnification against all liability arising from the disbursement of the earnest money and deposits to the seller. 
(D) If the residential property wholesaler fails to provide a residential property wholesaler written disclosure to the seller or buyer, and if the purchase and sale agreement is terminated as a result, the wholesaler shall be liable for damages incurred by seller and buyer. 
(E) In any mediation or arbitration proceeding or civil action between buyer and seller, between buyer and residential property wholesaler or between seller and residential property wholesaler that arises due to the residential property wholesaler’s failure to provide a residential property wholesaler written disclosure before entering into a written contract for a residential property wholesale transaction as prescribed under this section, the prevailing party is entitled to recover all reasonable attorney fees, costs and expenses incurred at trial, on appeal, at mediation and at arbitration from the residential property wholesaler. 
(F) How to file a complaint. If you believe a real estate licensee or a residential property wholesaler has violated any governing statute or rule, you may file a complaint with the Oregon Real Estate Agency (OREA). OREA will review the complaint. In most cases, other people involved in the case, including the respondent, will be contacted. Based on the information received, OREA will determine whether to start an investigation. 

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Oregon Laws 2024, chapter 3, section 3 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Oregon Laws 2024, chapter 3, section 5 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REA 4-2024, adopt filed 12/12/2024, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
