



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 CITY GENERAL RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE 
 166-200-0490 
 Public Safety Records 
 
 (1) Alarm Records: Series documents the licensing, permitting, use, testing, maintenance, and response to security alarms in the city. Records may include permits, applications, malfunction reports, maintenance reports, alarm response reports, false alarm reports, and related documentation.   Minimum retention: (a) Alarm licensing and permit records, 1 year after expiration or revocation; (b) All other records, 2 years. 

 (2) Alert and Notification Records: Series documents any written emergency warnings/notifications issued to the city from the county, the Oregon Department of Emergency Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency (NOAA), or the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Minimum retention: 30 days. 

 (3) Animal Control Records: Series documents public safety activities relating to animal control. Records may include reports, logs, receipts, licenses, dog bite reports, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Animal licenses, 3 years after expiration; (b) All other records, 2 years. 

 (4) Arrest Warrant Log Records: Series documents the status of arrest warrants as served, unserved, or recalled by the court. Records may include logs, validation listings, checkout sheets, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (5) Arrest Warrant Records: Series documents court orders commanding law enforcement officials to bring a specified individual before the court. Records may include detainer requests, informational documents related to the wanted person, teletypes, and other documentation relevant to the service of warrants. Note: These are working files that support the maintenance of the warrant itself. SEE ALSO: Incident Case Files for documentation of warrant service. Minimum retention: Until served, recalled, or cancelled by the court. 

 (6) Booking Records: Series documents the confinement and release of individuals held in a local correctional facility, temporary holding facility, juvenile detention facility, or lockup. Records may include books, logs, and related documentation. Note: Booking records related to individuals known to be deceased need not be retained. Minimum retention: (a) Homicides, 20 years; (b) Felonies, 10 years; (c) Misdemeanors, 5 years. 

 (7) Cadet Program Records: Series documents administration of a city’s junior cadet program. Records may include applications, reports, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 5 years. 

 (8) Controlled Substance Inventory and Tracking Records: Series documents the possession, storage, use, and tracking of controlled substances purchased by or surrendered to the department, pursuant to 21 CFR 1304.04. Records may include logs; inventory reports; sign-in, sign-out sheets; substance administration data; and related documentation. Minimum retention: 3 years, or until superseded, whichever is longer. 

 (9) Crime Analysis Records: Series documents department efforts to anticipate, prevent, detect, deter, or monitor possible criminal activity or other analytical work. Records may include reports, statistical summaries, trend or prediction documentation, photographs, audio and video recordings, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Major crime analyses or studies, 10 years; (b) All other records, until superseded or obsolete. 

 (10) Crime Prevention and Community Policing Program Records: Series documents programs designed to build partnerships between police and the community that promote public safety, as well as documenting department efforts to train citizens in crime prevention. Records may include trespass agreements with merchants, crime prevention through environmental design (CPTED) program records, and training and media presentation records including lesson plans, outlines, tests, evaluations, speeches, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (11) Crime Prevention Vacation House Inspection Records: Series documents the inspection of homes and other properties while the occupants are away. Minimum retention: 30 days after inspections end . 

 (12) Criminal Arrest History Records: Series documents information on the accumulated criminal arrest history of individuals, which may be useful in current or future investigations. Records may include summary sheets or cards, arrest reports, fingerprint records, mug shots, and related documentation. Note: Records may be destroyed earlier if individual is known to be deceased. SEE ALSO: Incident Case Files for retention of individual incidents. Minimum retention: (a) Homicides, 20 years; (b) Felonies, 10 years; (c) Misdemeanors, 5 years. 

 (13) Criminal History Dissemination Records: Series documents the distribution of Criminal History Record Information (CHRI) and other law enforcement information to other agencies or criminal information systems. Records may include teletype and computer message logs. Minimum retention: Until case completed or suspended. 

 (14) Criminal Intelligence Records: Series documents possible and proven criminal activity by individuals, groups, organizations, and businesses for use by local government law enforcement agencies. Sources include law enforcement and regulatory agencies, and private citizens. Retentions are based on procedures detailed in OAR 137-090. Records may include investigatory reports, statistical reports, memoranda, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) "Permanent files" as defined by OAR 137-090-0080, 5 years; (b) "Temporary files" as defined by OAR 137-090-0080, 1 year; (c) "Working files" as defined by OAR 137-090-0080, 30 working days. 

 (15) Detoxification Confinement Logs: Series documents the temporary detention pursuant to ORS 430.399 of those unable to care for themselves due to intoxication. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (16) Dispatch Incident Records: Series documents a specific call received by a public safety answering point and the subsequent activity for that call. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (17) Emergency and Disaster Incident Records: Series documents actions taken with respect to emergency planning and response activities during and after emergency incidents. Records may include photographs, damage reports, response reports, incident action plans, resource ordering and tracking records, financial documentation, logs, messages, notes, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Designated or declared emergencies, permanent; (b) Non-designated emergencies, 5 years. 

 (18) Emergency Exercise Records: Series documents regular emergency training exercises. Records may include statements of purpose, scenario narratives, major and detailed sequences of events, messages and inputs (simulation material), evaluation points, critique and follow-up actions reports, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 3 years after annual or final expenditure report submitted. 

 (19) Emergency Management Assistance Activity Reports : Series documents the city's emergency management work plans. Records include a narrative of emergency management program elements that were accomplished annually and supporting documentation. Minimum retention: 3 years after annual or final expenditure report submitted. 

 (20) Emergency Management Assistance Staff Pattern Records: Series documents the city’s personnel involved in the emergency management program and is submitted annually to the Oregon Department of Emergency Management for determining eligibility for funded staffing support of Emergency Management Assistance jurisdictions. Records may include appropriate Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) forms and related documentation. Minimum retention: 3 years after annual or final expenditure report submitted. 

 (21) Emergency Management Resource Lists: Series documents emergency resources such as personnel, materials, equipment, supplies, and services provided by suppliers and vendors. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (22) Emergency Medical Incident Records: Series documents medical treatment, care, or response to a request for emergency medical services. Records may include pre-hospital care reports, patient refusal of care, medical aid liability release forms, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 10 years. 

 (23) Emergency Telephone Call Continuous Audio Recordings: Series documents incoming emergency calls, law enforcement and emergency dispatches, radio activity, and 911 calls. Minimum Retention: (a) Recordings used as evidence, until case reaches final disposition; (b) All other recordings, 7 months. 

 (24) Enhanced 911 Service Plans: Series documents the planning, development, and implementation of enhanced 911/public safety answering point systems. Records may include preliminary and final plans, drafts and worksheets, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Approved plans and amendments, 5 years after superseded or obsolete; (b) Preliminary plans, drafts, worksheets and supporting materials, until plan approved by Oregon Department of Emergency Management. 

 (25) Expunged or Sealed Records, Police: Series documents an arrest or conviction that has been set aside or expunged by a court order, or otherwise disposing of any related records according to ORS 137.225. Also applies to records related to juveniles as outlined in ORS 419A.260 and 419A.262. Juvenile records are expunged, while adult records are sealed. Minimum retention: (a) Expunged records, dispose according to the directive of the court; (b) Expungement orders, 10 years or according to the directive of the court; (c) Sealed records, 10 years or according to the directive of the court. 

 (26) Field Interrogation Reports: Series contains reports written by a police officer related to individuals, groups, events, or vehicles for which the officer does not have probable cause for enforcement. Minimum retention: 1 year. 

 (27) Fingerprinting Records: Series documents fingerprints, palmprints, toeprints, and other personal identifiers of arrested individuals, used for identification and apprehension of suspects in criminal investigations. May also include fingerprints of private security personnel working in the city. Records of individuals known to be deceased need not be retained. SEE ALSO: Fingerprinting Records, Latent. Minimum retention: Until transmission to Oregon State Police verified. 

 (28) Fingerprinting Records, Latent: Series documents latent fingerprints and palmprints found at crime scenes without identification of suspects. These are compared against records on file at the police department or other databases. SEE ALSO: Fingerprinting Records. Minimum retention: (a) Cases involving crimes with no statute of limitations, 75 years after case closed; (b) All other cases, 1 year after statute of limitations expires. 

 (29) Fire and Emergency Medical Services Maps: Series contains maps and related records maintained by the city fire department for address location reference and response planning. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (30) Fire Investigation Records: Series documents investigations conducted by the city fire department. Records may include investigative reports, supplemental reports, photographs, maps, drawings, laboratory reports, notes, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Records documenting fires involving loss of life, 75 years; (b) All other records, 10 years. 

 (31) Fire Reports: Series contains reports that document each fire responded to by the city fire department. Minimum retention: 10 years. 

 (32) Firearm Dealers' Sales Records: Series documents purchases of firearms from dealers. Records may include duplicate register sheets mailed by the dealer to the law enforcement agency and triplicate register sheets mailed by the dealer to the State Police for criminal records checks and then forwarded to the agency. Minimum Retention: (a) Records submitted to Chief Local Law Enforcement Official documenting individual purchases of multiple firearms per 18 U.S.C. 923 (g)(3)(A), not to exceed 20 days (per 18 U.S.C. 923 (g)(3)(B); (b) All other records, 3 years. 

 (33) Hazardous Substance Employer Survey Summaries: Series documents the storage and use of hazardous materials within the area served by the fire department. Records may include summaries of employer surveys conducted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to ORS 453.317 as well as related records generated by the city. Minimum retention: 3 years after superseded or obsolete. 

 (34) Impounded and Abandoned Vehicle Records: Series documents the towing of vehicles by or at the direction of police, including for crashes, abandonment, or criminal activity. Records may include reports, notifications, information cards or sheets, receipts, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Records not included in Incident Case File, 2 years. 

 (35) Incident Case File Indexes: Series contains indexes to incident case files used as cross references between case numbers, names, dates, modus operandi, and other descriptive information. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (36) Incident Case Files: Series documents central case files documenting complaints or other actions or incidents investigated by the department. Records may include investigative reports, fingerprint records, original arrest reports, supplemental reports, photographs, teletypes, court orders, court dispositions, officer notes, laboratory reports, DUII (Driving Under the Influence of Intoxicants) test records including chemical analyses (also known as intoxilyzer or breathalyzer test records), citizen arrest certificates, copies of warrants, search warrants, and booking sheets, property/evidence reports, custody reports, police officer issued mental holds, use of force reports , and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Cases involving crimes with no statute of limitations, 75 years after case closed; (b) Protective custody files, until minor's age of majority or emancipation; (c) Missing Persons Reports, until found; (d) Cases involving stolen firearms, until firearm recovered and LEDS entry removed; (e) Non-criminal reports other than (b) or (c), 3 years; (f) Use of force reports, 5 years; (g) All other cases, 1 year after statute of limitations expires. 

 (37) Informant Case Files: Series documents information about informants used by department personnel. Records may include reports, payment records, fingerprint cards, signature cards, letters of understanding on informant activities, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (38) Inmate Accountability Records: Series documents inmate counts, cell locations, inmate status, and related information. Records may include logs detailing status of individual inmates, lists, rosters documenting the location of all inmates, inmate counts, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 1 year. 

 (39) Inmate Case File Indexes: Series contains indexes used to access inmate case files. Usually cross referenced by name, case number, and other identifiers.  Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (40) Inmate Case Files: Series documents non-medical information on inmates confined in a correctional facility. Records may include incident reports, release receipt indicating return of property, court commitment and release orders, and related documentation . Minimum retention: 3 years after release. 

 (41) Inmate Meal Records: Series documents menus used to plan and schedule inmate meals. Records may include listings of those inmates who received meals. Minimum retention: 6 months. 

 (42) Inmate Medical Records: Series documents outpatient medical treatment given to inmates. Records may include treatment log, prescriptions, health questionnaires, laboratory reports, x-ray reports, medical reports from other facilities, medication records, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 7 years after release without reactivity. 

 (43) Inmate Telephone and Mail Records: Series documents telephone calls and mail sent and received by inmates. Records may include logs and related documentation. Minimum retention: 1 year. 

 (44) Inspection and Occupancy Records: Series documents periodic fire prevention inspections of fire code compliance performed by the city fire department. Records may include reports, notices, and citations, as well as occupancy and pre-fire planning records such as floor plans, sketches, reports, lists, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Both current and previous inspection reports must be retained for at least 10 years and may not be destroyed until next report is issued. 

 (45) Interagency Inquiry Records: Series documents requests made to other agencies involving missing persons, wanted persons, stolen vehicles, and other subjects. Records may include logs and related request documentation. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (46) K9 Records: Series documents an individual K9’s work history. Records may include medical records, how the animal came into the program, historical information, photographs, and other information about the animals, capture log, type of activity undertaken by the dog (tracking, search, guard, etc.), capture number, custody number and other related information, training and certification records, performance appraisal evaluations, letters of commendation and recommendation, letters of reprimand, notices of disciplinary action, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 6 years after dog retires. 

 (47) Law Enforcement Database Validation Records: Series documents validation of entries into the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) or Law Enforcement Data System (LEDS) databases. Minimum retention: 5 years or until audited by NCIC or other applicable law enforcement network, whichever is shorter. 

 (48) Law Enforcement Internal Investigations Case Files: Series documents police department investigations of police officers or reserve officers, as defined by ORS 181A for violations of laws, rules, or policy and may include findings and dispositions of investigations. Records often include material found in incident case files. SEE ALSO: Disciplinary Action Records for investigations of all other personnel. Minimum retention: 10 years after separation. 

 (49) Lost and Found Property Records: Series documents items not related to a crime that are found by or turned into police. Records may include receipts, inventory logs, and destruction or disposition records. SEE ALSO: Property and Evidence Control and Disposition Records. Minimum retention: 2 years after disposition. 

 (50) Maps, Police: Series contains maps and related documentation used by police to facilitate incident response, planning, or displaying various trends including crime. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (51) Master 24 Hour Audio Recordings: Series documents recordings of calls to a public safety answering point on either 911 or non-emergency lines, or recording of radio traffic for fire, emergency medical services, or law enforcement. Note: Specific recordings of incidents may warrant longer retention for legal reasons. Minimum retention: 1 year. 

 (52) Master Name Index Records: Series documents relevant information on persons contacted by police. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (53) Master Street Address Guide (MSAG) Maintenance Forms: Series documents the 911/public safety answering point's notification to the phone service provider about the addition of new streets or revision to existing streets on the Master Street Address Guide (MSAG). The MSAG is maintained by the phone service provider or its independent contractor. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (54) Neighborhood Dispute Resolution Records: Series documents the city's dispute resolution program to handle complaints by citizens about concerns or disputes with neighbors or merchants. Typical cases may include animal control, landlord/tenant issues, noise, harassment, property disputes, and business/consumer issues. Records may include budget, activity, and statistical reports, mediation training information, evaluation and intake records, service referrals, resolution agreements, and follow-up surveys. Minimum retention: (a) Case records, 5 years after last action; (b) All other records, 2 years. 

 (55) Officer Notes: Series documents notes written by police officers during the course of their shift. Notes may or may not be incorporated into an Incident Case File or be added as comments to a Dispatch Incident Record. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (56) Patrol Car Video Recordings: Series documents recordings of officer activities from cameras mounted on police vehicles. Minimum retention: (a) Recordings used as evidence in an ongoing criminal investigation or court proceeding, until case reaches final disposition; (b) Recordings used for internal investigations, until investigation closed; (c) All other recordings, 30 days. 

 (57) Pawn Broker and Second Hand Dealer Reports: Series documents reports submitted to police documenting items bought, sold, or pawned by dealers. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (58) Peer Court Records : Series documents the city’s peer court program for youth offenders who are diverted from the juvenile court for minor offenses and adjudicated informally by their peers. Records may include policy and procedures manuals, budget, activity and statistical reports, guidelines and instructions for participants, applications, juvenile consent form, intake interview form, defendant questionnaire, summary report, attorney's analysis, jury verdict record, bailiff record, clerk's record, community service log, judge's notes, officer's status reports, defendant evaluation, parent evaluation, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Case records, 5 years after final disposition of case, or youth reaches age of majority, whichever is longer; (b) Participant guidelines and instructions, until superseded or obsolete; (c) All other records, 2 years. 

 (59) Permit to Purchase Firearm Records: Series documents issuance of firearm Permits-to-Purchase and renewals as specified in ORS 166. Records may include permit applications, permit renewal applications, background check results, permit revocations and denials, proof of completion of an approved safety course, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Revoked permits, 5 years after revocation or denial; (b) All other records, 2 years after expiration of permit. 

 (60) Police Officer Body-Worn Camera Recordings : Series documents video recordings made by body-worn cameras by members of law enforcement during the performance of their duties. Minimum retention: (a) Recordings used as evidence in an ongoing criminal investigation or court proceeding, until case reaches final disposition; (b) Recordings used for internal investigations, until investigation closed or 180 days, whichever is longer (not to exceed 30 months, per ORS 133.741); (c) All other recordings, 180 days (not to exceed 30 months, per ORS 133.741). 

 (61) Polygraph Records: Series documents polygraph tests given to criminal suspects, prospective employees, and others. Records may include pre-examination records, examination questions for individuals interviewed, statements of consent, polygraph analysis reports, examiner's original test questions, examination chart tracing reports, polygraph results charts, conclusions, interviewee statements, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Cases involving crimes with no statute of limitations, 75 years after case closed; (b) All other cases, 1 year after statute of limitations expires. 

 (62) Premise Information Records: Series documents hazards or other information relevant to emergency responders about a premises or specific location in advance of arrival at an incident site. Minimum retention: 2 years, or until renewed, superseded, or expired, whichever is sooner. 

 (63) Property and Evidence Control and Disposition Records: Series documents records used to track property and evidence coming into police department possession. Documents receipt, storage, and disposition of personal property and physical evidence from defendants, victims, and others. Records may include receipt forms, evidence control sheets, property reports, destruction lists, property consignment sheets, seized firearm logs, homicide evidence inventories, crime scene photographs, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Cases involving crimes with no statute of limitations, 75 years after case closed; (b) All other cases, 1 year after statute of limitations expires. 

 (64) Property Registration Records : Series documents the registration of property for identification in case of theft, loss, or burglary. Minimum retention: Until registration is expired, superseded, or obsolete. 

 (65) Public Safety Answering Point Data Management System Records: Series documents the maintenance and update of current information used to provide and direct incident response within a 911/public safety answering point service area. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (66) Public Safety Answering Point Operational Logs: Series documents chronological tracking of activities related to 911/public safety answering point operations. Records may include radio logs, telephone logs, tow logs, and criminal background check request logs. Minimum retention: 1 year. 

 (67) Public Safety Answering Point Quality Assurance Records: Series documents the evaluation, analysis, and assessment of the performance and quality of services provided by the 911/public safety answering point system. Records may include system evaluations, system performance reports, satisfaction surveys and questionnaires, quality improvement reports and recommendations, quality assurance committee minutes, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Survey instruments, 2 years, or until summary report completed, whichever is sooner; (b) All other records, 2 years. 

 (68) Public Safety Answering Point Statistical Reports: Series documents the compilation of statistical data about the actions and activities of the 911/public safety answering point system. Records may include data about response times, number of calls received and dispatched, and responses by individual agency. Minimum retention: (a) Data instruments used to compile statistics, until statistical report completed; (b) Daily and weekly reports, until compiled into monthly reports; (c) Monthly and quarterly reports, 1 year; (d) Annual reports, 10 years. 

 (69) Public Safety Answering Point System Error/Malfunction Records: Series documents 911/public safety answering point electronic systems errors or malfunctions and subsequent corrective action. Records may include enhanced system error reports, trouble logs, work orders, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (70) Public Safety Worker Briefing Records: Series documents internal communications between supervisors and shift workers or between staff on different shifts. Minimum retention: 90 days. 

 (71) Ride-Along Applications: Series documents applications for ride-along programs run by police or emergency services. Records may include approved and denied applications. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (72) State Fire Marshal Exemption Records: Series documents partial or full city exemption from statutes, rules, and regulations administered by the State Fire Marshal for cities that enact and enforce adequate regulations to conform with state and national fire standards defined in ORS 476.030(3). Records may include applications, reports, exemption certificates, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years after denial, revocation, or expiration of exemption. 

 (73) Tactical Response Records: Series documents the planning for and performance of hostage negotiations, riot response, bomb threats, or other tactical situations. Records may include maps, rosters, equipment inventory, training records, and situation reviews. Minimum retention: 3 years. 

 (74) Towed Vehicle Records: Series documents tow truck requests and responses. Records may include rotation lists, documentation of vehicles towed from private property at the request of citizens, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 1 year. 

 (75) Traffic, Transit, and Other Citation Records: Series documents police department copies of citations issued for traffic, transit, motor vehicle, and other violations. Includes Uniform Traffic Citations, parking citations, city’s photo radar enforcement program for red-light or speed violation, logs, and related documentation. Minimum Retention: (a) Logs, 1 year; (b) Issued Citations, 2 years; (c) Unissued photo radar citations, 30 days. 

 (76) Traffic Violation Warning Records: Series documents warnings issued for alleged traffic, transit, and other minor offenses. Minimum retention: 1 year. 

 (77) Used Firearm Transfer Records: Series documents the sale or transfer of a firearm by a licensed dealer reported to police as required by ORS 166.427. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (78) Weapons Inventory Records: Series documents weapons assigned to law enforcement officers. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (79) Youth Fire Prevention and Intervention Records: Series documents multi-disciplinary prevention and intervention services provided to children who have a history of or are at risk for setting fires. Community-based services are provided under the guidance of the Office of State Fire Marshal.   Minimum retention: (a) Until court ordered expunction (ORS 419A.262); (b) If case is not expunged, 5 years after last action, or youth reaches age of majority, whichever is longer. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192.005 - 192.170 & ORS 357.805 - 357.895 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005 - 192.170 & ORS 357.805 - 357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-2025, adopt filed 07/03/2025, effective 07/03/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
