



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Higher Education Coordinating Commission 
 Office of Student Access and Completion - Chapter 575 
 
 
 
 
 Division 105 TRIBAL STUDENT PROGRAM 
 575-105-0015 
 Grant Amount 
 
 (1) The Commission shall provide a qualified student with an award calculated in the following manner: 

 (a) For an undergraduate student attending an Oregon public university listed in ORS 352.002, Oregon Health and Science University, or an Oregon community college established under ORS Chapter 341, the Commission shall provide an award equal to and not to exceed the average cost of attendance, as calculated by the eligible institution at which the student enrolls, reduced by the amount of state and federal educational grant and scholarship aid available to such student. The total award of combined resources shall not exceed the cost of attendance. 

 (b) For an undergraduate student attending a qualifying non-public institution, the commission shall provide an award equal to the average cost of attendance of the highest cost institution, reduced by the amount of state and federal educational and scholarship aid available to such student, in the equivalent public institution sector as follows: 

 (A) If such student is attending a qualifying four-year non-public university, the public university listed in ORS 352.002 with the highest undergraduate average cost of attendance. 

 (B) If such student is attending a qualifying two-year non-public institution, the community college operated under ORS chapter 341 with the highest average cost of attendance. 

 (c) For a graduate student enrolled in a master’s degree seeking program, the Commission shall provide an award equal to the average cost of attendance reduced by the amount of institutional assistant aid, state and federal educational grants, and scholarship aid available to such student. The award shall not exceed the highest average undergraduate cost of attendance at an Oregon public university listed in ORS 352.002. The total award of combined resources shall not exceed the cost of attendance. 

 (d) Priority consideration for funding graduate students shall be given first to students who are enrolled in a master’s degree seeking program. 

 (e) Should funding be available after awarding applicants at the undergraduate and master’s level the commission may review and consider partial or full awards to students in either professional or doctoral programs of study, and/or graduate certificates. For a student who is enrolled in either professional or doctoral degree seeking program and/or graduate certificates who has been determined to be eligible to receive grant funding as determined by subsection (1)(c) of this section, the Commission shall provide an award equal to the average cost of attendance reduced by the amount of institutional assistant aid, state and federal educational grants, and scholarship aid available to such student, not to exceed the highest average undergraduate cost of attendance at an Oregon public university listed in ORS 352.002. The total award of combined resources shall not exceed the cost of attendance. 

 (2) Exemptions to required student aid reductions to the grant award: 

 (a) Grants and scholarships awarded by an Oregon federally recognized tribe as defined under ORS 182.162. 

 (b) Educational funding provided by the United States Department of Veteran Affairs. 

 (c) Federal or private student loans offered to the student. 

 (d) Other federally excluded student financial assistance. 

 (3) Prior to the start of the fall term of each academic year, the Commission shall determine whether moneys available to the Commission are sufficient to award a grant under this section to each eligible student. If appropriate, the Commission shall prioritize as follows: 

 (a) renewing prior recipients, supporting their completion; 

 (b) new undergraduate students; and then 

 (c) all other applicants as funding permits. 

 (4) On the basis of any determination under Section (3), the Commission may: 

 (a) Limit eligibility to receive a grant under this section to a person using alternate methodology, as determined by the commission by rule, if available funding is at or below a level the Commission determines is necessary to allow the commission to operate the grant program under this section with available moneys; or 

 (b) Reduce or eliminate any limitation on eligibility previously imposed by the Commission under paragraph (a) of this subsection. 

 (5) If at any time the Commission determines that moneys available to the commission are insufficient to provide a grant under this section to each eligible person, the Commission may decrease the total amount of the grant awarded to each recipient 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  350.075 & 2022 Oregon Laws Chapter 110 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  2022 Oregon Laws Chapter 110 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSAC 3-2022, adopt filed 10/19/2022, effective 10/19/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSAC 1-2022, temporary adopt filed 06/01/2022, effective 06/01/2022 through 11/27/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
