



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 55 SEXUAL CONDUCT INVESTIGATIONS 
 581-055-0003 
 Screening 
 
 (1) When ODE receives a report of possible sexual conduct, ODE shall conduct screening activities to determine whether the report constitutes a report of suspected sexual conduct for which ODE has responsibility to investigate or a report of confirmed sexual conduct for which ODE does not have responsibility to investigate. Screening activities may include: 

 (a) Determining whether the report alleges sexual conduct. 

 (b) Determining whether, at the time of the alleged conduct, the student was a student. 

 (c) Determining whether the respondent provided services to an education provider as a school employee, contractor, agent or volunteer within two calendar years prior to when the possible sexual conduct was committed. 

 (d) Determining whether the respondent is a commission licensee. 

 (e) Confirming that the respondent is not deceased. 

 (f) Confirming that the respondent has not been convicted of a disqualifying crime. 

 (g) Gathering information on the alleged conduct and the circumstances surrounding the report. 

 (h) Requesting relevant records from the education provider pertaining to the alleged conduct. 

 (i) Requesting relevant records from ODHS pertaining to the alleged conduct. If ODHS is presently conducting an investigation into the alleged conduct, ODE will wait for the conclusion of ODHS’ investigation before determining whether the report constitutes a report of suspected sexual conduct for purposes of investigations under ORS 339.391. 

 (j) Requesting relevant records from law enforcement pertaining to the alleged conduct. If law enforcement is presently conducting an investigation into the alleged conduct, ODE will wait for the conclusion of law enforcement’s investigation before determining whether the report constitutes a report of suspected sexual conduct for purposes of investigations under ORS 339.391. 

 (2) When screening activities in subsection (1) of this rule are complete, ODE shall determine whether the report constitutes a report of suspected sexual conduct or a report of confirmed sexual conduct. 

 (a) If ODE determines that the report is a report of suspected sexual conduct, ODE shall immediately initiate an investigation as defined in OAR 581-055-0004. 

 (b) If ODE determines that the report is a report of confirmed sexual conduct, ODE shall: 

 (A) Close the report at screening; and 

 (B) Provide written notice to the respondent that explains: 

 (i) Due to the conviction, ODE will maintain a record in its verification system indicating that the respondent has a substantiated report of sexual conduct with ODE; and 

 (ii) The process the respondent can initiate to dispute ODE’s verification system record. 

 (c) If ODE determines that the report is not a report of suspected sexual conduct or a report of confirmed sexual conduct, ODE shall close the report at screening. If the education provider has submitted a report of possible sexual conduct to ODE, ODE shall provide written notice to the education provider regarding its action to close the report at screening. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 326.051 & ORS 339.391 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 339.391 & ORS 419B.019 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 16-2026, adopt filed 04/17/2026, effective 04/17/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
