



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 150 COUNTY AND SPECIAL DISTRICT RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE 
 166-150-0166 
 Property and Facilities Management Records 
 
 (1) Asset, Equipment, and Property Records: Series documents property and equipment owned and/or maintained by an agency. Records may include service and repair records, work orders, damaged or stolen asset records, asset disposition records, risk reports, real property reports, transfer reports, money and negotiable securities reports, general risk surveys,  and warranties. SEE ALSO: Real Property Transaction Records; and Vehicle Maintenance and Repair Records. Minimum retention: (a) Equipment maintenance records, 1 year after equipment disposed of; (b) All other records, 4 years. 

 (2) Cemetery Records: Series documents the administration and management of agency-owned cemeteries. Records may include lists of names and maps of grave locations, deeds, documentation of purchasing lots and burials, death certificates, State Mortuary and Cemetery Board licensing and reporting records, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (3) Chemical Application Records: Series documents the use of pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers on agency property. Minimum retention: 3 years after application. 

 (4) Chemical Inventories: Series documents chemicals in use by an agency for purposes of maintaining safety standards (29 CFR 1910). SEE ALSO: Master Material Safety Data Records; and Vector Control Chemical Inventory Records. Minimum retention: 30 years. 

 (5) Deed Instruments, Unrecorded: Series documents conveyance or encumbrance of an interest in real property. Records may include deeds; condominiums, plats, and partition plats; leases, contracts, easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, options, and affidavits. SEE ALSO: Deed Instruments, Recorded; and Deeds to Agency-Owned Land. Minimum retention: Permanent . 

 (6) Deeds to Agency-Owned Land: Series documents evidence of agency ownership of public lands and rights-of-way. Records may include maps and legal descriptions, title transfers, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 3 years after property is no longer owned by the agency. 

 (7) Easements, Unrecorded: Series documents unrecorded grants by property owners to the agency for use of private property for public uses. Records may include maps or other exhibits. SEE ALSO: Easements, Recorded. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (8) Equipment Calibration Records: Series documents the maintenance and calibration of equipment and instruments used to undertake and monitor technical operations. Records may include logs, reports, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Life of equipment. 

 (9) Equipment Tracking Records: Series documents the issue of equipment to agency personnel. Records may include inventories and tracking sheets. SEE ALSO: Weapons Inventory Records. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (10) Facilities and Grounds Inspection Records: Series documents periodic inspection of facilities and grounds to check for damage and recommend repairs and maintenance. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (11) Facilities and Grounds Maintenance and Repair Records: Series documents routine maintenance, repairs, and access to buildings, grounds, and rights-of-way owned or leased by the agency. Records may include maintenance requests, summaries, logs, reports, and similar records usually compiled from daily work records on a monthly or quarterly basis. SEE ALSO: Activity Reports; and Agency Improvement Administrative and Financial Records. Minimum retention: (a) Records requiring engineering stamps, 2 years after life of structure; (b) All other records, 2 years. 

 (12) Fleet Vehicle Title and Registration Records: Series documents the ownership and registration of all agency vehicles (including unmanned aircraft systems). Minimum retention: (a) Titles, until vehicle is sold or disposed of; (b) Registration records, until superseded or disposition of vehicle. 

 (13) Fuel Records: Series documents the amount of gasoline, diesel, and oil used by agency-owned vehicles. Records may include logs, reports, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (14) Master Material Safety Data Records: Series documents all hazardous chemicals used and held by an agency. Records may include hazardous materials safety sheets, safety instructions, and emergency instructions. Minimum retention: Until superseded or chemical no longer in use. 

 (15) Park Caretaker Records: Series documents the activities of the park caretaker, including maintenance, construction, operation, and rehabilitation of county parks, waysides, and recreational areas, publications and educational presentations provided to visitors, issuance of permits, collection of fees, and issuance of citations and written warnings. SEE ALSO: Permit and License Records, Agency-Issued. Minimum retention: 3 years after caretaker separation. 

 (16) Property Dedication Records: Series documents dedication of private property to the agency for public uses such as transportation facilities (streets, sidewalks, bikeways) and parks. Records may include dedication agreements, maps, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (17) Property Vacation Records: Series documents recorded property vacations, including streets, alleys, easements, public utilities, subdivisions, and rights-of-way. Records may include petitions to vacate, maps, descriptions of property, staff reports, approval orders, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (18) Real Property Transaction Records: Series documents acquisitions, dispositions, and relocations of real property and rights-of-way by the agency for urban renewal projects, parks, sewers, streets, water lines, traffic signals, and other reasons. Records may include cultural resource records, offer letters, options, agreements of short duration, staff reports, appraisal reports and reviews, inspection reports, letters of transmittal, summaries, and related documentation. SEE ALSO: Deeds to Agency-Owned Land. Minimum retention: 10 years after transaction completed and final audit accepted. 

 (19) Swimming Pool Operation and Maintenance Records: Series documents the operation and maintenance of agency swimming pools. Records may include results of pool water quality tests, and records of inspection and maintenance of safety equipment. Minimum retention: 2 years after facility closes. 

 (20) Technical Manuals, Specifications, and Warranties: Series documents technical details of agency-owned vehicles and equipment. Records may include specifications, operating instructions, and safety information. Minimum retention: (a) Manuals, until disposition of vehicle or equipment; (b) Warranties, until expiration. 

 (21) Vehicle Maintenance and Repair Records: Series documents the maintenance and repair history of all agency-owned vehicles. Records may include usage logs, reports, summaries, and similar records usually compiled from daily work records on a monthly or quarterly basis. Minimum retention: (a) Daily vehicle inspection and usage records, 3 years; (b) All other records, 2 years after disposition of vehicle. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & ORS 357.805–357.895 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & ORS 357.805–357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 7-2025, adopt filed 11/05/2025, effective 11/05/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
