



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Rail Division - Chapter 741 
 
 
 
 
 Division 65 STATE SAFETY OVERSIGHT OF RAIL FIXED GUIDEWAY PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS THAT DO NOT RECEIVE FEDERAL FUNDING 
 741-065-0030 
 Required Plans 
 
 (1) System Safety Program Plan Requirements 
(a) RTA with a RFGPTS shall prepare a System Safety Program Plan conforming to the requirements of OAR 741-065-0010 through 741-065-0110. 
(b) The RTA shall review its System Safety Program Plan a minimum of once every three years, unless a substantial change has been made to the plan requiring SSOA review and approval. After each review, and upon a date agreed to between the RTA and the SSOA, the RTA shall submit the plan, along with written documentation and any checklists used for the review, to the SSOA for review and approval. When the RTA submits the plan and review materials to the SSOA, the RTA shall include a cover letter identifying any changes made to the plan. If the SSOA determines that additional changes to the plan are necessary, the SSOA shall advise the RTA in writing of the changes required. The RTA shall have 30 days to revise its plan to comply with modifications required by the SSOA. 
(c) The System Safety Program Plan must describe the method used to maintain effective communications and coordination with SSOA staff, and must contain: 
(A) An organization chart of the RTA; 
(B) A description of employee training and certification on the System Safety Program Plan process for employees in safety-related positions; 
(C) Identification of the facilities and equipment subject to regular safety-related inspection and testing; 
(D) A description of the process for developing and managing CAPs as described in OAR 741-065-0072; 
(E) A description of the process used by the RTA to ensure that planned and scheduled internal safety reviews are performed to evaluate compliance with the System Safety Program Plan, pursuant to OAR 741-065-0070; 
(F) The method and schedule for tri-annual submission of the System Safety Program Plan, the System Security Plan and the Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan to the SSOA; 
(G) The process for facilitating on-site safety reviews by the SSOA; 
(H) A description of the safety program for employees and contractors that incorporates the applicable state and local requirements, including: 
(i) Safety requirements that employees and contractors must follow when working on, or in close proximity to, RTA property; and 
(ii) Processes for ensuring the employees and contractors know and follow the requirements. 
(I) A description of the hazard management process used by the RTA, pursuant to OAR 741-065-0076; 
(J) A description of the process used by the RTA to perform accident notification,  investigation and reporting, pursuant to OAR 741-065-0078 and OAR 741-065-0090. 
(K) A description of the process used by the RTA to ensure that safety concerns are addressed in modifications to existing systems, vehicles, and equipment, including any system extensions, rehabilitations or new starts, if applicable; and 
(L) A description or reference to the applicable hours of service policy pursuant to OAR 741-065-0100. 
(M) A description of the drug and alcohol-testing program, or reference to an existing program, that applies to its safety sensitive employees. The program, if contained in a separate document from the plan, must be submitted to the SSOA for review. 
(N) A description of the process whereby the plan is reviewed and approved by the board of directors or other equivalent authority of the RTA; and 
(O) A sufficiently explicit process for hazard management, with adequate means of risk mitigation for the RFGPTS. 
(d) The RTA shall implement and comply with the System Safety Program Plan for all aspects of its RFGPTS. 
(2) System Security Plan Requirements 
(a) Each RTA with a RFGPTS shall prepare a System Security Plan conforming to the requirements of OAR 741-065-0010 through 741-065-0110. 
(b) The System Security Plan must be developed and maintained separately from the System Safety Program Plan. 
(c) The RTA shall review its System Security Plan a minimum of once every three years, unless a significant change has been made to the plan requiring SSOA review and approval. After each review, and upon a date agreed to by the RTA and the SSOA, the RTA shall submit the plan, along with written documentation and any checklists used for the review, to the SSOA for review and approval. When the RTA submits the plan and review materials to the SSOA, it shall include a cover letter identifying any changes made to the plan. If the SSOA determines that additional changes to the plan are necessary, the SSOA shall advise the RTA in writing of the changes required. The RTA shall have 30 days to revise its plan to comply with any modifications required by the SSOA. 
(d) The RTA shall implement and comply with the System Security Plan for all operations of its RFGPTS. The RTA shall document within the plans its process for managing threats and vulnerabilities during operations and for major projects, extensions, new vehicles and equipment, including integration with the safety certification process. 
(e) The RTA shall not make its System Security Plan available to the public. 
(f) The System Security Plan must include the process the RTA used to develop the plan. 
(g) The System Security Plan must include measures to control and track all access to the plan and any of its contents. At a minimum, the RTA must number each page, place a unique identifying mark on each copy of the plan and maintain a log showing the whereabouts of each copy of the plan. The plan must include the process the RTA uses to make the plan available for SSOA review and approval. Any information contained therein determined to be sensitive security information, as defined in OAR 741-065-0020(35), must be marked as specified in OAR 741-065-0010(6). 
(h) The System Security Plan must: 
(A) Identify the policies, goals, and objectives for the security program endorsed by the RTA’s General Manager; and 
(B) Identify controls in place that address the personal security of passengers and employees 
(3) Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan 
(a) All RTAs shall have an Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan.  The plan may be combined with the transit agency’s System Safety Program Plan, if desired, or prepared as a stand-alone document. 
(b) The Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan must: 
(A) Include activities and programs in place at the RTA to support planning for emergency preparedness and response; 
(B) Detail the assignment of employee responsibilities during an emergency; 
(C) Identify the ability to coordinate with external response agencies, including Federal, State, regional, and local officials with roles and responsibilities for emergency preparedness and response in the transit agency’s service area; 
(D) Describe the training and procedures available to ensure employee proficiency; and 
(E) Describe the process for annually reviewing and updating the plan, and the process for its annual submission to the SSOA. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.619, 192.502, 823.011, 824.045, 824.990, 49 CFR 15 & 49 CFR 1520 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 183.745 & 824.045 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RD 2-2021, adopt filed 07/19/2021, effective 07/19/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
