



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 CITY GENERAL RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE 
 166-200-0435 
 City Recorder/City Clerk - General Records 
 
 (1) Annexation Records: Series documents the annexation of areas into municipal boundaries. Records may include staff reports, petitions, service district withdrawal records, surveys, boundary commission recommendations and judgments, census reports, franchise notices, maps, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (2) City Charter: Series documents the constitution, bylaws, and all amendments to city charters approved by the State Legislature. Records may include original charter, amendments, and related records. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (3) City Code: Series documents codified ordinances passed by the city council. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (4) Deeds to City-Owned Land: Series documents evidence of city ownership of public lands and rights-of-way. Records may include maps and legal descriptions, title transfers, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Record of sale or property transfer and legal property description, permanent; (b) All other records, until property sold and any applicable audits have been completed. 

 (5) Easements: Series documents recorded grants by property owners to the city for use of private property for public uses. Records may include maps or other exhibits. SEE ALSO: Temporary Access/Construction Easement Records. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (6) Forms Development Records: Series documents the development of new or revised forms used by a city. Records may include sample forms, revisions, form logs/listings, proposals, authorizations, and illustrations. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (7) Oaths of Office: Series contains signed oaths taken by various elected and appointed officials before discharging duties of office. Minimum retention: 6 years after most recent oath expired. 

 (8) Orders: Series documents orders issued by the city. Records may include provisions of city code, adoption or amendment of rules, declarations, and executive orders. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (9) Ordinance Records: Series documents legislative action of the city council to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control, or supervise any activity, business, conduct, or condition authorized by Oregon Revised Statutes. Records may include signed ordinances and documentation presented to support action. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (10) Property Dedication Records: Series documents dedication of private property to the city for public uses such as transportation facilities (streets, sidewalks, bikeways) and parks. Records may include dedication agreements, maps, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (11) Property Vacation Records: Series documents recorded property vacations by the city, including streets, alleys, easements, public utilities, subdivisions, and rights-of-way. Records may include petitions to vacate, maps, descriptions of property, staff reports, approval orders, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (12) Records Management Records : Series documents the authorized retention, scheduling, inventory, and disposition of city public records. Records may include records retention schedules, inventory worksheets, schedule authorizations, procedure guidelines, transmittals, destruction authorizations, reports, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Destruction records, 25 years; (b) Index/Finding Aid records, until superseded or obsolete; (c) Filing System records, 5 years after superseded or abolished; (d) All other records, 5 years after superseded or obsolete . 

 (13) Resolutions: Series contains formal statements of decisions or expressions of opinions adopted by the city council. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (14) Waivers of Remonstrance: Series documents agreements made by private property owners to forgo their rights to remonstrate (oppose/protest) against certain city actions in exchange for other considerations. Minimum retention: (a) If waiver has an expiration date, 6 years after expiration date; (b) If waiver carries no expiration date, 6 years after completion of project. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192.005 - 192.170 & ORS 357.805 - 357.895 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005 - 192.170 & ORS 357.805 - 357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-2025, adopt filed 07/03/2025, effective 07/03/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
