



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
   Temporary rule language in effect until 10/19/2026. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 149 GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO PUBLIC CONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION SERVICES 
 736-149-0870 
 Specifications; Brand Name or Equal Specification 
 
 (1) Equivalents. The department may identify products by brand names as long as the following language: "approved equal"; "or equal"; "approved equivalent" or "equivalent," or similar language is included in the solicitation document. The department shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether an offeror's alternate product is "equal" or "equivalent." 

 (2) Applicability and Use. The department may establish “brand name or equal” specifications in a solicitation or solicitation document in accordance with this rule. 

 (a) A brand name or equal specification may be used when the use of a brand name or equal specification is advantageous to the department because the brand name describes the standard of quality, performance, functionality, or other characteristics of the goods or services needed by the department. 

 (b) The department is entitled to determine what constitutes goods or services that are equal or superior to the goods or services specified, and any such determination made according to this section is final. 

 (c) Nothing in this subsection may be construed as prohibiting the department from specifying one or more comparable goods or services as examples of the quality, performance, functionality or other characteristics of the goods or services needed by the department. 

 (3) Determination. A brand name or equal specification may be prepared and used if the department determines that only the identified brand name or equal specification will meet the needs of the department based on one or more of the following written determinations: 

 (a) That use of a brand name or equal specification is unlikely to encourage favoritism in the award of a contract; 

 (b) That use of a brand name or equal specification would result in substantial cost savings to the department; or 

 (c) That efficient utilization of existing goods or services requires the acquisition of compatible goods or services. 

 (4) Department may use a brand name or equal specification in a small procurement without complying with subsection (2) of this rule. 

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279.025(3)(k) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279.025(3)(k) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 2-2026, temporary adopt filed 04/23/2026, effective 04/24/2026 through 10/19/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
