



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 305 CERTIFIED CHILD CARE CENTERS 
 414-305-1030 
 Medications 
 
 (1)    Before a certified child care center gives a child any prescription or non-prescription medication, including, but not limited to, pain relievers, cough syrup, and nose drops, the center must:   
(a)    Have a signed, dated, written authorization by the parent(s) on file (also see OAR 414-305-0230, Parental Permissions); 
(A)    For chronic medical conditions, a certified child care center may obtain permission for 12 months or less with specific instructions including when administration is needed, such as inhalers. 
(B)    Parental authorization over the phone is permitted for single dose administration of non-prescription medication. The date and time of the consent must be documented and signed by the parent upon picking up their child.  
(b)    Ensure that the original container is labeled with the name of the medication, dosage, and directions for administration and storage. 
(A)    For prescription medication, the label must include the child’s name, the date the prescription was filled, the prescribing physician's name, and length of time to give the medication. 
(B)    If parent instructions differ from the container instructions, a certified child care center must have a licensed physician's written instructions for that medication.  
(C)    Medication must not be administered after the expiration date. 
(D)     Any medication provided by the parents must be labeled with the child’s name. 
(c)    Ensure that cleaned and sanitized medication measuring devices are used when providing medication to a child care child, if applicable. 
(2)    A certified child care center must immediately document any medication administered, listing the name of the child, type of medication, date, time, and dosage given, any side effects exhibited by the child, and the signature of the person administering the medication. 
(3)    A certified child care center must inform parent(s) daily of all medications administered to their child. 
(4)    If medication is provided by the parent, a certified child care center must administer medication only to the child for whom it is intended, and follow the directions on the label. 
(5)    A certified child care center must ensure that all medications are inaccessible to children, with child-resistant caps when available, and stored away from food. 
(a)    If only stored out-of-reach of children, the medication bottle or package must be stored in a container with a tight-fitting lid. 
(b)    Emergency medicine may be placed in an unlocked container that is kept out of reach of children while inside the facility.  
(6)    A certified child care center must keep medications requiring refrigeration in a separate tightly-covered, leakproof container clearly marked "medication" and inaccessible to children. 
(7)    If using nonmedical items including, but not limited to sunscreen, a certified child care center does not need to document application but must: 
(a)    Have annual written parental authorization; 
(b)    Use only as needed and according to manufacturer’s instructions; 
(c)    Inform parents of the type of sunscreen used if provided by the center; 
(d)    Label the item with the child’s name if provided by the parent, and use only for that child; and  
(e)    Allow children to apply sunscreen to themselves with direct staff supervision and written parental approval. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELD 10-2023, adopt filed 06/28/2023, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
