



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Licensing Office, Board of Cosmetology - Chapter 817 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 PRACTITIONER ADDITIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING AND SCOPE OF PRACTICE INFORMATION 
 817-015-0025 
 Requirements and Standards 
 
 (1) Any product or manual, mechanical or electrical apparatus, appliance or device used in a field of practice must meet all product registration requirements imposed by any federal, state, county, city or other regulating authority. 

 (2) The following applies to any service, product, chemical, materials and supplies, tools and implements, including sharp edged or pointed non-electrical tools and implements, or manual, mechanical or electrical apparatus, appliance, or device that an authorization holder uses in a field of practice: 

 (a) An item listed in subsection (2) of this rule is subject to Office inspection. 

 (b) The authorization holder must maintain and make available to the Office upon request all manufacturer operation and usage documentation for an item listed in subsection (2) of this rule. 

 (c) The authorization holder is responsible for using an item listed in (2) in a manner that is consistent with the manufacturer’s intended use. 

 (d) The authorization holder must obtain education or training before providing services or using items listed in subsection (2) of this rule. 

 (3) The following requirements pertain to the education or training listed in subsection (2)(d) of this rule: 

 (a) The education or training listed in subsection (2)(d) of this rule may be obtained through schools, institutions, vendors, manufacturers, formal seminars, online courses, practitioners certified in a field of practice, a licensed health-care provider or self-study. 

 (b) Based on how the education or training was obtained, the authorization holder must maintain the following records of education or training listed in subsection (2)(d) of this rule: 

 (A) For self-study: A completed self-study form. The self-study form is prescribed by the Office. 

 (B) Schools, institutions, vendors, manufacturers, formal seminars, or online courses: 

 (i) Name of education or training sponsor or provider. 

 (ii) Documentation from the education or training sponsor that expressly shows that the education or training is related to an item in section (2) of this rule. 

 (iii) Documentation of attendance and course completion including, but not limited to, certificate, transcript, sponsor statement, affidavit attesting to attendance, or diploma. 

 (C) Certified practitioner or licensed health care provider: 

 (i) Documentation of the content and hours. 

 (ii) Proof of the certified practitioner’s or licensed health-care provider’s education or training. 

 (c) The authorization holder must maintain records of education or training for as long as the authorization holder provides services. 

 (d) If an authorization holder has not provided services or used items listed in (2)(d) of this rule within two-years then the authorization holder must obtain additional education or training. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 690.165 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 690.165 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BOC 5-2024, adopt filed 06/29/2024, effective 07/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
