



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 50 SCHOOL IMMUNIZATION RULES 
 333-050-0270 
 Record of Immunization Exemptions 
 
 (1) Medical Exemptions. 

 (a) A parent may claim a medical exemption from an immunization for a child for one or more of the vaccines required in these rules. 

 (b) A parent claiming a medical exemption on or after August 1, 2025, must submit a medical exemption form to the administrator. 

 (c) The administrator must submit all medical exemption forms to the local health department. The local health department must review the forms to ensure all the fields are complete and to verify that the documentation includes a contraindication or precaution in accordance with the current recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices or the American Academy of Pediatrics. 

 (d) If a medical exemption form does not contain a contraindication or precaution in accordance with the current recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices or the American Academy of Pediatrics, or lacks the information stated in OAR 333-050-0210(21), the local health department must inform the school or facility that the medical exemption form lacks the required elements for a medical exemption, and the school or facility must inform the parent. A medical exemption form may be resubmitted with all of the required elements for reevaluation. 

 (e) The local health department must categorize a medical exemption as temporary or permanent based on the duration that the contraindication or precaution is expected to last. 

 (2) Nonmedical Exemptions. 

 (a) A parent may claim a nonmedical exemption from an immunization for a child for one or more of the vaccines required in these rules. 

 (b) A parent claiming a nonmedical exemption must complete and submit a Certificate of Immunization Status form to the administrator in accordance with these rules, and must submit: 

 (A) Documentation that the parent has completed a vaccine educational module approved by the Public Health Division within the previous 12 months; or 

 (B) Documentation that the parent has discussed with a health care practitioner within the previous 12 months the risks and benefits of immunization that is consistent with information published by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and consistent with the contents of the vaccine educational module approved by the Public Health Division and contains the signature of the health care practitioner, on a form prescribed by the Oregon Health Authority. 

 (c) Documentation of completion of the vaccine educational module must be on a form prescribed by the Public Health Division, Immunization Program. 

 (d) Documentation of nonmedical exemption must specify the vaccines about which information about the benefits and risks has been provided and for which a nonmedical exemption may be claimed for the child. 

 (e) For children 15 years of age or older, a school may accept a documentation of nonmedical exemption completed and signed by the child. 

 (3) Nothing in this rule is intended to prevent a person from using or accepting an electronic document, using or accepting an electronic signature, or using, accepting, transmitting or storing documents electronically. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 433.004 & ORS 433.273 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 433.001, ORS 433.004, ORS 433.006 & ORS 433.235 - 433.284 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 11-2025, adopt filed 05/02/2025, effective 05/02/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
