



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 3 EDUCATION ACCOUNTABILITY 
 581-003-0001 
 Definitions for the Education Accountability Act 
 
 The following definitions apply to OAR 581-014-0001 to 581-014-9999 & OAR 581-003-0001 to 581-003-0060: 

 (1) “Academic Growth” means the change in a student’s performance over time as measured by interim assessments in Language Arts and Mathematics. 

 (2) “Combined Focal Group Students” means students reported to the Oregon Department of Education through standard data collections in any of the following student groups: 

 (a) Economically Disadvantaged Students; 

 (b) Students Recently Arrived; 

 (c) Justice Involved Youth; 

 (d) Students from Racial or Ethnic Groups that Have Historically Experienced Academic Disparities; 

 (e) Students who are Pregnant, Parenting, and/or Students who Experience any Pregnancy-related Condition; 

 (f) Students with Disabilities; 

 (g) Foster Students; 

 (h) Students who are Homeless; 

 (i) Migratory Students; and 

 (j) Emerging bilingual students. 

 (3) "Common Metrics” means the following student performance metrics: 

 (a) On-time graduation rate; 

 (b) Five-year completion rate; 

 (c) Ninth-grade on-track rate; 

 (d) Eighth-grade mathematics proficiency rate; 

 (e) Third-grade English Language proficiency rate; 

 (f) Regular attendance rate; and 

 (g) Regular early-grade attendance rate. 

 (4) “Career and Workforce Readiness” means the composite total of CTE Participants and CTE Concentrators. 

 (5) “Differentiated Metrics” means the metrics included in the Performance Growth Targets for institutions receiving state school funds that are serving students in nontraditional settings, including: 

 (a) An Education Service District that has enrolled students in any grade from kindergarten through grade 12 for specialized services; 

 (b) An approved recovery school; 

 (c) The Youth Corrections Education Program; 

 (d) The Juvenile Detention Education Program; 

 (e) The Oregon School for the Deaf; and 

 (f) Eligible day treatment programs and eligible residential treatment programs for education services to children who are in treatment programs as described in ORS 343.961. 

 (6) “Disaggregated” means separated based on student group 

 (7) “Economically Disadvantaged Students” means students who meet one or more of the following qualifications: 

 (a) Are participating in Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program funded by the United States Department of Agriculture; 

 (b) Are participating in the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program as defined in Title IV of the Social Security Act; 

 (c) Are foster students; 

 (d) Are migratory students; or 

 (e) Are students who are homeless. 

 (8) “Education Service District that has enrolled students in any grade from kindergarten through grade 12 for specialized services” means an Education Service District-operated program or school providing core instruction and supports for students whose needs cannot be met within their resident district. These programs include, but are not limited to, care programs for medically fragile students, life skills programs, functional living skills programs, social-emotional programs, autism-specific programs, and independent schools operated by an Education Service District. This definition excludes approved recovery schools, the Youth Corrections Education Program, the Juvenile Detention Education Program, Oregon School for the Deaf, and day treatment programs as described in ORS 343.961. 

 (9) “Foster Students” has the same meaning as defined in ORS 30.297(5)(c). 

 (10) “Fifth Grade Science Achievement” means the indexed measure of student achievement in Science for fifth grade students using the Oregon Statewide Assessment System. 

 (11) “Justice Involved Youth” means a student who is pre or post adjudication, has been or is currently detained in a secure juvenile justice facility, and/or has been or is currently placed in a community juvenile justice program. 

 (12) “LGBTQ2SIA+ Students” means students who may have one or multiple gender identities and/or sexual orientations including lesbian, gay, bisexual, pansexual, transgender, nonbinary, queer, questioning, two-spirit, intersex, and asexual. The plus sign (“+”) recognizes and includes the myriad ways to describe marginalized gender identities and sexual orientations. 

 (13) “Migratory Students” means a student who is a migratory worker or whose parent or guardian is a migratory worker in the agricultural, dairy, lumber, or fishing industries and who has moved due to economic necessity between school districts in the last thirty-six months, and is eligible to be a part of the Title 1-C Migrant Education Program. 

 (14) “Multilingual Proficiency” means the number of students earning the seal of biliteracy or multiliteracy. 

 (15) “Optional Metrics” are metrics not included in the Common Metrics, the school district’s selected Local Metric, or Differentiated Metrics that the school district chooses to include in their Performance Growth Targets. 

 (16) “Performance Growth Targets” means the targets set for each year through co-development between the school district and the Oregon Department of Education, starting with the 2026-27 school year, to comply with ORS 327.006-327.133. 

 (17) “Postsecondary Readiness” means the composite of students earning dual credit or Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate completion. 

 (18) “Students Recently Arrived” means a student who was NOT born in any state or US Territory and who has not been attending one or more schools in any one or more state for more than three full academic years. 

 (19) “Students from Racial or Ethnic Groups that Have Historically Experienced Academic Disparities” includes, but is not limited to American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN and AI/AN+) students, Black and African American students, Hispanic and Latino students, Asian students, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander students, and multiracial students, and any other racial or ethnic group identified by the school district as historically experienced academic disparities. 

 (20) “Students who are Homeless” has the same meaning as in section 725 of the McKinney-Vento Act, 42 USC § 11434a (2). 

 (21) “Students who are Pregnant, Parenting, and/or Students who Experience any Pregnancy-related Condition” means students who are pregnant for any length of time, or who are actively caring for a child, whether biologically related to them or otherwise. This includes students with pregnancy-related conditions, including, but not limited to loss or termination of a pregnancy, childbirth, lactation, and/or mental health conditions. 

 (22) “Students with Disabilities” means a child with a disability as defined in ORS 343.035(1). 

 (23) “School district” means: 

 (a) A common school district or a union high school district; 

 (b) An education service district that has enrolled students in any grade from kindergarten through grade 12 for specialized services; 

 (c) A public charter school; 

 (d) An approved recovery school; 

 (e) The Youth Corrections Education Program; 

 (f) The Juvenile Detention Education Program; 

 (g) The Oregon School for the Deaf; or 

 (h) Eligible day treatment programs and eligible residential treatment programs for education services to children who are in treatment programs as described in ORS 343.961. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  SB 141 (2025) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  SB 141 (2025) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 24-2026, amend filed 05/29/2026, effective 05/29/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 61-2025, adopt filed 12/15/2025, effective 12/15/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
