



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 264 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS 
 333-264-0070 
 Competency-Based Assessment (CBA) Program for EMT, AEMT and EMT-Intermediate Courses 
 
 (1) All EMT, AEMT, and EMT-Intermediate courses approved by the Oregon Health Authority (Authority) as described in OAR 333-264-0030 shall incorporate a competency-based assessment (CBA) program in a manner prescribed by the Authority. 

 (2) The Authority sets student performance outcomes as required minimum competencies for the student to achieve in an EMT, AEMT, and EMT-Intermediate course. 

 (3) The course director of an EMT, AEMT, or EMT-Intermediate course verifies student achievement of each student performance outcome in a manner prescribed by the Authority. 

 (4) An application is required for the initial implementation of a CBA program in EMT, AEMT, and EMT-Intermediate courses. 

 (a) The application must be submitted on a form prescribed by the Authority a minimum of 60 days before implementation of the CBA program in a course. 

 (b) The initial application must include: 

 (A) Evidence of alignment between course activities and assessments with student performance outcomes required by the Authority; 

 (B) A copy of course syllabus policies regarding assessment, scoring, remediation, and processes to verify achievement of student performance outcomes within the CBA program; 

 (C) Evidence of alignment of clinical and field experiences to state-required student performance outcomes for EMT and AEMT courses; and 

 (D) A plan for instructor and student orientation to the CBA program. 

 (5) A revised application is required for significant changes to the administration or delivery of a previously approved CBA program within an EMT, AEMT, or EMT-Intermediate course and must be submitted on a form prescribed by the Authority a minimum of 30 days before the start of the course. A significant change includes, but is not limited to: 

 (a) The change of a course director; 

 (b) The change of a program director; or 

 (c) Realignment of learning activities and assessments to student performance outcome required by the Authority. 

 (6) Implementation of a new CBA program or proposed changes to a previously approved CBA program shall not begin until the application is approved by the Authority. 

 (7) An educational institution must report data specified in section (9) of this rule relating to the CBA program for all EMT, AEMT, and EMT-Intermediate courses conducted in the academic year. The report must be submitted on a form prescribed by the Authority by June 30 of the current academic year. 

 (8) An Oregon non-educational institution that was approved by the Authority to teach an EMT or EMT-Intermediate course must report data specified in section (9) of this rule relating to the CBA program. The report must be submitted on a form prescribed by the Authority within 30 days of course completion. 

 (9) The following minimum data must be reported to the Authority: 

 (a) Student enrollment and retention from each course; 

 (b) Evaluation of alignment between learning activities and student performance outcomes required by the Authority; 

 (c) Evaluation of CBA program policies and processes; and 

 (d) A plan of CBA program changes, if applicable. 

 (10) The Authority will review CBA program reports to assure compliance and for ongoing quality improvement of the CBA program. 

 (a) The Authority may request further information or clarification during the review process. 

 (b) The Authority may conduct an audit of specific CBA courses and CBA program structure. 

 (11) The Authority may deny, suspend, or revoke approval of an EMT, AEMT, or EMT-Intermediate course in accordance with ORS chapter 183 and these rules for failure to comply with application, reporting, or CBA program requirements. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 682.017 & ORS 682.208 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 682.017, ORS 682.208 & ORS 682.216 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 78-2024, adopt filed 10/31/2024, effective 11/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
