



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 674 PREFABRICATED CONSTRUCTION 
 918-674-0860 
 Plan Approvals, Inspections and Oregon Insignia of Compliance 
 
 (1) A prefabricated third-party agency must comply with the following requirements for plan approvals and Oregon insignia of compliance. 

 (2) A prefabricated third-party agency must use a plan number naming convention approved by the division. The purpose is to establish consistency with plan numbering used by the division. 

 (3) Plans approved by a prefabricated third-party agency may only be valid for the period of time specified in OAR 918-674-0610. 

 (4) Inspections performed by a prefabricated third-party agency must comply with the applicable inspection requirements established in OAR 918-674-0570. 

 (5) Applications for Oregon insignia of compliance for prefabricated buildings plan reviewed and inspected by a prefabricated third-party agency must be submitted to the division by the manufacturer. 

 (a) Applications for Oregon insignia of compliance must be submitted using a division-approved application form along with the applicable fees required in OAR 918-674-0730. The insignia application must be received by the division prior to construction of a prefabricated building. 

 (b) Approved applications for Oregon insignia of compliance will be sent to the prefabricated third-party agency along with the requested insignias. 

 (c) Upon receipt, the prefabricated third-party agency must verify the Oregon insignias of compliance have been received in satisfactory condition and contain the correct information. Any Oregon insignias of compliance damaged or containing incorrect information must be returned to the division immediately for replacement. 

 (d) A prefabricated third-party agency must designate at least one individual, but not more than two individuals, in their organization authorized to receive Oregon insignia of compliance. The division will only issue insignias of compliance to the person(s) authorized by the prefabricated third-party agency. 

 (e) A prefabricated third-party agency is responsible for Oregon insignia of compliance from the time they are received until affixed to the prefabricated building. The prefabricated third-party agency must ensure Oregon insignia of compliance are secured under lock and key until issued. 

 (f) A prefabricated third-party agency is responsible for issuing Oregon insignia of compliance to a prefabricated building the prefabricated third-party agency performed plan review for and inspected. 

 (g) Oregon insignia of compliance not issued to a prefabricated building are valid for 90 days after the expiration date of the approved plan the insignia was issued under. Oregon insignia of compliance not issued to a prefabricated building must be returned to the division with a reason why the insignia was not issued. 

 (h) When a manufacturer’s registration expires or has been revoked by the division, a prefabricated third-party agency may not issue any insignias of compliance to any prefabricated building manufactured by that manufacturer. The prefabricated third-party agency must return to the division all unused insignia of compliance after a manufacturer’s registration expires or has been canceled by the division. 

 (i) Oregon insignia of compliance remain the sole property of the division and may be withdrawn from the prefabricated third-party for failure to comply with applicable Oregon laws and administrative rules or failure to comply with Oregon Specialty Codes. Oregon insignia of compliance found in the possession of dealers, distributors, or other unauthorized entities and not affixed to the designated prefabricated building will be confiscated by the division and will become invalid. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 455.705 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 455.705 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 7-2026, adopt filed 07/01/2026, effective 07/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
