



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-0370 
 Orientation and Initial Training 
 
 (1) A certified ONB program must ensure that all staff, including substitutes, receive an orientation within the first 10 days of hire and before staff have unsupervised access to children. An orientation must include, but is not limited to:  
(a) A review of the rules for certified ONB programs; 
(b) The written plan for emergency preparedness that addresses evacuation, relocation, shelter-in-place and lockdown procedures and responding to medical emergencies, illness and injuries, allergic reactions, and other incidents; 
(c) The prevention and control of infectious diseases; 
(d) Premises safety including identification and protection from hazards such as electrical hazards, bodies of water, and vehicular traffic;   
(e) The handling and storage of hazardous materials and the appropriate disposal of bodily fluids; 
(f) Methods used to inform personnel of children's specific health, nutritional, and developmental needs; 
(g) Prevention of abusive head trauma and child maltreatment;  
(h) The administration of medication; 
(i) The ONB program policies, as required under OAR 414-320-0200, Policies; 
(j) Applicable ONB program benefit-risk assessments, and risk management policies and risk procedures; 
(k)   The ONB program's curriculum philosophy; and 
(l) Procedures for reporting suspected child abuse or neglect. 
(2) A certified ONB program must ensure staff, including substitutes, complete the following within 30 days of hire and prior to having unsupervised access to children: 
(a) Introduction to Child Care Health and Safety; and 
(b) A minimum of 2 hours of DELC approved training on recognizing and reporting child abuse and neglect that is specific to Oregon law. 
(3) A certified ONB program’s staff and substitutes, with the exception of cooks, must complete the following within 90 days of hire and prior to having unsupervised access to children: 
(a) Have current certification in pediatric CPR and first aid.  Online CPR training is only acceptable if it includes hands-on instruction. Pediatric CPR and first aid must be kept current during employment at the certified ONB program.   
(b) Complete the Foundations for Learning child development training.  
(4) If a certified ONB program is required to have staff certified in wilderness first aid as identified in OAR 414-320-0300(4), the certification must be kept current during employment at the ONB program.  
(5) A certified ONB program must ensure the following staff, including substitutes, obtain an Oregon food handler’s certification within 30 days of hire. Food handler’s certification must be kept current during employment at the certified ONB program. 
(a) Cooks and kitchen staff who handle food; and 
(b) Staff who serve meals from a communal source or put away leftovers. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
