



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 68 IDENTIFICATION, NOTIFICATION, SALE AND EXCHANGE, CLEARING TITLE, OR RESERVATION OF HISTORICALLY FILLED LANDS, AND APPROVAL TO CREATE, SELL, EXCHANGE OR RESERVE NEW LANDS 
 141-068-0010 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) "Abutting" means immediately adjacent to or facing.  (2)"Affected Property Owners" refers to those people listed in the records of the county assessor as owners of property fronting, abutting or underlying, or having a recorded easement allowing access to a waterway segment at the time that the Department undertakes a State’s interest study of the subject waterway.  (3) "Applicant" is any person who submits a written request to the Department to create, purchase or exchange land or interests in land.  (4) "Appraisal" or "Appraisal Report" means a written statement setting forth an opinion as to the market value of the lands or interests in lands as of a specific date(s) prepared by a qualified appraiser in accordance with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practices (USPAP) standards.  (5) "Deed" means a written, legal instrument that conveys an estate or interest in real property when it is properly executed and delivered.  (6) “Department” means the Department of State Lands.  (7) "Declaration" is a written statement by the Land Board concerning the nature and extent of the state's interest to historically filled lands in a waterway segment under study.  (8) "Director" means the Director of the Oregon Department of State Lands or designee.  (9) "Easement" is an authorization granted that gives a person the use of a specifically designated parcel of land for a specific purpose and length of time. An easement does not convey any proprietary or other rights of use to the holder other than those specifically granted in the easement authorization.  (10) “Fair Market Value” means the most probable price, as of a specified date, in cash, or in terms equivalent to cash for which the specified property rights should sell after reasonable exposure in a competitive market under all conditions requisite to a fair sale, with the buyer and seller acting prudently, knowledgeably, and assuming that neither is under undue duress.  (11) “Geothermal Resources” as defined in ORS 522.005 means the natural heat of the earth, the energy, in whatever form, below the surface of the earth present in, resulting from, or created by, or that may be extracted from, the natural heat, and all minerals in solution or other products obtained from naturally heated fluids, brines, associated gases, and steam in whatever form, found below the surface of the earth, exclusive of helium or of oil, hydrocarbon gas or other hydrocarbon substances, but including, specifically:  (a) All products of geothermal processes, including indigenous steam, hot water and hot brines;  (b) Steam and other gases, hot water and hot brines resulting from water, gas, or other fluids artificially introduced into geothermal formations;  (c) Heat or other associated energy found in geothermal formations; and  (d) Any by-product derived from them.  (12) “Highest and Best Use of Filled Land” means to treat the land (not including improvements) as if it were a part of the adjacent, or larger upland parcel, rather than an isolated land-locked parcel, unless the parcel is solely created by filled land. Filled land must be appraised with this definition unless the Department has given specific instructions to the contrary.  (13) “Historically Filled Lands” as defined in ORS 274.905, means those lands protruding above the line of ordinary high water, whether or not connected with the adjoining or opposite upland or riparian lands on the same side of the body of water that were created upon submersible or submerged lands by artificial fill or deposit before May 28, 1963. Historically filled lands does not include bridges, wharves and similar structures constructed upon submersible or submerged lands by other than artificial fill or deposit.  (14) “Interest” means right, title, or legal share in something.  (15) “Interested persons” means any person that has requested to be notified of certain Department actions within an area, or who has previously provided comment on a similar agency action.  (16) “Line of Ordinary High Water” as defined in ORS 274.005, means the line on the bank or shore to which the high water ordinarily rises annually in season.  (17) “Line of Ordinary Low Water” as defined in ORS 274.005, means the line on the bank or shore to which the low water ordinarily recedes annually in season.  (18) "New Lands" as defined in ORS 274.905 means those lands protruding above the line of ordinary high water, whether or not connected with the adjoining or opposite upland or riparian land on the same side of the body of water, that were created upon submersible or submerged lands by artificial fill or deposit on or after May 28, 1963 and not including bridges, wharves and similar structures constructed upon submersible or submerged lands by other than artificial fill or deposit.  (19) "Person" includes individuals, corporations, associations, firms, partnerships, limited liability companies and joint stock companies as well as any state or other governmental or political subdivision or agency, public corporation, public authority, or Indian Tribe.  (20) “Public Interest” as used in ORS 274.940 includes the values, rights and interests that the public holds in historically filled lands for recreation, conservation of resources, or navigation.”  (21) "Quitclaim Deed" is a form of deed in which any interest the grantor possesses in the property described in the deed is conveyed to the grantee without guaranteeing that interest or its title.  (22) "Real Market Value" or “RMV” means the current real market value of the property (not including improvements) assigned to the land or comparable tax lot by the county tax assessor.  (23) "Reserved Interest" means an interest in the land that is retained by the Department from a conveyance of the title to the state land.  (24) "State Land Board" or "Board" means the constitutionally created body consisting of the Governor, Secretary of State and the State Treasurer that is responsible for managing the assets of the Common School Fund as well as for additional functions placed under its jurisdiction by law.  (25) “Submerged Lands” as defined in ORS 274.005, means lands lying below the line of ordinary low water of all navigable waters within the boundaries of this state as heretofore or hereafter established, whether such waters are tidal or nontidal.  (26) “Submersible Lands” as defined in ORS 274.005, means lands lying between the line of ordinary high water and the line of ordinary low water of all navigable waters and all islands, shore lands or other such lands held by or granted to this state by virtue of her sovereignty, wherever applicable, within the boundaries of this state as heretofore or hereafter established, whether such waters or lands are tidal or nontidal. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 273 & 274 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 274.905-274.956 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-12-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2016, f. 5-13-16, cert. ef. 6-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
