



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 160 REGISTRATION AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS FOR UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK SERVICE PROVIDERS 
 340-160-0021 
 UST Service Provider Work Practices 
 
 (1) For all scheduled UST services, a UST service provider must: 

 (a) Notify DEQ on a form specified by DEQ 3 business days before start of the work; 

 (b) Provide with the notification: 

 (A) The name of the licensed UST Supervisor who will perform the work; 

 (B) The manufacturer’s name and a description of each piece of UST equipment involved in the work; and 

 (C) A copy of the proof of manufacturer’s certification for the UST Supervisor specified in section (A) above for each piece of equipment specified in section (B) above. 

 (2) In addition to the requirements in section (1) above, for the following UST Services, a UST Service Provider must receive approval in writing from DEQ before proceeding: 

 (a) For UST installations: 

 (A) Setting the tank; 

 (B) Primary and secondary pipe testing; 

 (C) Integrity testing of the sumps and spill buckets; 

 (D) Backfilling the piping and tank top; and 

 (E) Start up testing. 

 (b) For UST modifications: 

 (A) Primary and secondary pipe testing; 

 (B) Integrity testing of the sumps and spill buckets; 

 (C) Backfilling the piping and tank top; and 

 (D) Start up testing. 

 (c) For UST repairs: 

 (A) Starting the repair; and 

 (B) Testing the repair. 

 (d) For UST decommissionings: 

 (A) Removing the tank; and 

 (B) Site assessment sampling. 

 (3) If DEQ does not provide approval to proceed to the notifications described in section (2) above within 3 business days, approval to proceed will be deemed to have been granted. 

 (4) Following the completion of UST Services, a UST Service provider must: 

 (a) Submit testing results, including all failed tests, to DEQ on a form provided by DEQ within 30 days; 

 (b) Submit a checklist on a form provided by DEQ for each installation, modification, repair or decommissioning within 30 days: 

 (A) All checklists must be signed by an executive officer of the service provider and the supervisor of the project; and 

 (B) An as-built drawing of the completed UST installation or modification must be included with the associated checklist. 

 (5) In the case of an emergency repair, where delay could result in danger to human health or a release of petroleum into the environment, a UST Service Provider must satisfy the requirements of section (1) above within 72 hours of completing the repair. 

 (6) A service provider must report to the department the existence of any condition relating to an UST system that has or may result in a release to the environment within 72 hours of discovery of the condition. 

 (7) The requirements of this section are in addition to and not in lieu of any other licensing requirement imposed by law. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 465.200 - 465.320 & 466.706 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 466.706 & 466.750 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 13-2025, adopt filed 05/09/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
