



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Higher Education Coordinating Commission 
 Chapter 715 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 45 Private Career Schools 
 715-045-0038 
 Cancellation and Refund Policy: Self-Directed Instruction (Clock Hour Program/Lesson Based)
 
 
 (1) A student may cancel enrollment by giving written notice to the school. Unless the school has discontinued the program of instruction, the student is financially obligated to the school according to the following: 

 (a) If cancellation occurs within five business days of the date of enrollment, and lesson materials have not been delivered, all monies specific to the enrollment agreement shall be refunded; 

 (b) If cancellation occurs within 5 business days of the date of enrollment and lesson materials have been delivered, all monies related to the enrollment agreement shall be refunded with the exception of the cost of unreturned lesson materials or the cost of replacement for returned materials that are damaged or marked; 

 (c) If cancellation occurs after five business days of the date of enrollment and the lesson materials have been shipped but not delivered to the student: 

 (A) The school may charge an amount equal to 15 percent of the tuition cost, or $250, whichever is less; that being established as its registration fee; 

 (B) If the student returns the unopened books and supplies to the school within five days of receipt, the school will refund the total cost of lesson materials. 

 (d) If cancellation occurs after five business days of the date of enrollment and lesson materials have been delivered to the student but not returned within five days of receipt, and before the commencement of the accrual of clock-hours or the completion of the first lesson, the school may charge: 

 (A) An amount equal to 15 percent of the tuition cost, or $250, whichever is less; that being established as its registration fee; and 

 (B) The total cost of books and supplies. 

 (e) If withdrawal or termination occurs after the commencement of the accrual of clock-hours or the completion of the first lesson assignment and before either 50 percent of the program has been offered, or before 50 percent of the program clock-hours or lesson assignments are completed, the student shall be entitled to a pro rata refund of the tuition when the amount paid exceeds the charges owed to the school. In addition to the pro-rated tuition charge, the school may retain the registration fee, book and supply fees, and any other legitimate charges owed by the student; 

 (f) If withdrawal or termination occurs after completion of 50 percent or more of the program has been offered or after completion of 50 percent or more of the program clock-hours or lesson assignments, whichever occurs first, the student shall be obligated for the tuition charged for the entire instructional program and shall not be entitled to any refund. 

 (2) For cancellation under subsections (1) of this rule, the "date of enrollment" will be determined: 

 (a) When enrollment occurs in the school setting, the enrollment date shall be the date the enrollment agreement is signed by both the student and the authorized school official, whichever is later; 

 (b) When enrollment occurs online, the date of enrollment will be the date the school receives: 

 (A) A copy of the enrollment agreement signed by the student, and the student is granted access to the program, or 

 (B) Submission of student enrollment information through a secured website. The website must have a registration process that includes, but is not limited to, statements detailing the legal and financial obligations related to enrollment in a school. The student must verify that he/she has read and understands the enrollment agreement. A copy of the student enrollment agreement information that includes "a declaration by the student acknowledging the reading, understanding and acceptance of the enrollment obligations" shall be placed in the student file in lieu of a signed enrollment agreement. 

 (3) Under subsection (1) of this rule, the term "offered" means the period of time between the beginning date and ending date of the program as identified on the enrollment agreement. 

 (4) Under subsection (1) of this rule, the portion of tuition cost for which the student shall be charged is determined by dividing the total clock hours into the number of clock hours accrued by the student, or the total number of lessons into the number of lessons completed by the student. 

 (5) The term "tuition cost" means the charges for instruction including any lab fees. Tuition cost does not include application fees, registration fees, or other identified program fees and costs. The school shall adopt and publish policies regarding the return of resalable books and supplies and/or the prorating of user fees, other than lab fees. 

 (6) The term "Pro rata refund" means a refund of tuition paid for that portion of the program not completed by the student. 

 (7) The school shall not charge a withdrawal fee of more than $25; 

 (8) The school may adopt and apply refund calculations more favorable to the student than those described under this policy. 

 (9) When a cancellation, withdrawal, termination, or completion occurs, a calculation of all allowable charges under this rule shall be made. If such calculations evidence that the school received total payments greater than its allowable charges: 

 (a) Within 40 days after notification of such cancellation, withdrawal, termination, or completion, a written statement showing allowable charges and total payments received shall be delivered to the student by the school, together with a refund equal in amount to monies paid to the school in excess of those allowable charges; 

 (b) In the event payments to a student account are derived from federal and/or state tuition assistance program(s), including student loan programs, regulations governing refund notification and awarding within respective program(s) shall prevail in lieu of paragraph (a) of this subsection, but only with respect to the covered portions thereof; and 

 (c) In the event payments to a student account are derived from a sponsoring public agency, private agency, or any source other than the student, the statement of charges and payments received together with an appropriate refund described under section (9)(a) of this rule may be delivered instead to such party(ies) in interest, but only with respect to the covered portions thereof. 

 (10) In case of disabling illness or accident, death in the immediate family, or other circumstances beyond the control of the student that causes the student to leave school, the school shall arrange a prorated tuition settlement that is reasonable and fair to both parties. 

 (11) A school shall be considered in default of the enrollment agreement when a course or program is discontinued or canceled or the school closes prior to completion of contracted services. When a school is in default, student tuition may be refunded by the school on a pro rata basis. The pro rata refund shall be allowed only if the Commission determines that the school has made provision for students enrolled at the time of default to complete a comparable program at another institution. The provision for program completion shall be at no additional cost to the student in excess of the original contract with the defaulting school. If the school does not make such provision, a refund of all tuition and fees shall be made by the school to the students. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 345.115 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 345.115 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HECC 2-2026, amend filed 02/13/2026, effective 02/13/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 581-045-0038 by HECC 2-2014, f. & cert. ef. 4-23-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 15-2006, f. 12-11-06, cert. ef. 1-1-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
