



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 999 WORKFORCE REGISTRY 
 414-999-0030 
 Career Pathways 
 
 (1) The Department shall work with the Oregon Registry to develop and implement a step-based career pathway system, in which licensing serves as the foundational step and higher steps recognize diverse routes for advancing qualifications. 

 (2) The career pathway system sets guidelines for how individuals can advance through registry recognized steps through a variety of recognized and approved activities, experiences, and credentials, in combination. Expectation for the number and types of activities, experiences, and credentials increase as individuals move through higher steps in the career pathway system. 

 (3) For the purposes of advancing to higher steps in the career pathway system, the Oregon Registry shall verify and accept documentation related to Early Childhood Education. 

 (4) Verified documentation may include, but is not limited to, transcripts, completion certificates, employer or Department-approved agent attestations, portfolios, or other evidence recognized by the Department. 

 (5) The verification process shall support equitable access for all providers by recognizing multiple credible forms of documentation reflective of diverse learning and professional experiences. 

 (6) Professional development shall include at a minimum: 

 (a) Endorsements and licensure approved by the Department including: 

 (A) Oregon Infant Mental Health Association (ORIMHA) 

 (i) Infant Mental Health (IMH-E®) 

 (ii) Early Childhood Mental Health (ECMH-E®) 

 (B) Teaching Licenses, in and outside of Oregon related to the provision of services to children who are zero through six years of age or those in out of school time care. 

 (b) Degrees, certificates and postsecondary coursework credits approved by the Department including: 

 (A) Early Childhood Education Higher Education degrees and certificates without the requirement of a transcript review. 

 (B) Early Childhood Education Allied Higher Education degrees and certificates without transcript review, unless requested by the applicant. 

 (C) Individual course credits related to Oregon's Core Knowledge Categories if the Early Childhood Workforce member's higher education degree or certificate is not in an Early Childhood Education or Related Profession. 

 (D) Individual higher education course credits related to Oregon's Core Knowledge Categories. 

 (E) Official or unofficial transcripts may be submitted for unrelated degrees or individual higher education course credits for review. 

 (F) Apprenticeships that support early learning and are approved by the Department shall be accepted for Oregon Registry step advancement without review unless the applicant requests an individual review. 

 (c) Early Childhood Education Work Experience: 

 (A) Early Childhood Education work experience as an Early Learning workforce member. 

 (B) Work experience will be reviewed and verified by the Oregon Registry through documentation and processes approved by the Department. 

 (d) Tribal knowledge and experience: 

 (A) DELC will engage in consultation with Federally recognized Tribes to establish the validation process 

 (B) Individuals seeking recognition for tribal knowledge and experience may request a letter of validation from a Federally recognized Tribe in or outside of Oregon; 

 (e) Department-approved competencies including: 

 (A) The National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) Standards and Competencies for Early Educators 

 (B) Zero to Three Critical Competencies for Infant-Toddler Educators 

 (C) Oregon Coaching Competencies 

 (D) OregonASK's Oregon's Quality Standards and Core Competencies 

 (f) Evidence of proficiency in a language other than English demonstrated through documentation approved by the Department. 

 (g) Certifications: 

 (A) Certifications approved by the Department including: 

 (i) Montessori certification awarded by: 

 (I) Montessori Accreditation Council for Teacher Education (MACTE) 

 (II) Association Montessori Internationale (AMI) 

 (ii) Child Development Associate (CDA) awarded by the Council for Professional Recognition. 

 (iii) Waldorf certification awarded by Waldorf Early Childhood Association of North America (WECAN). 

 (B) Applicants are not required to renew certification in order to maintain an approved career pathway step. 

 (h) Continuous professional development: 

 (A) Early Childhood training hours from within Oregon and out of state. 

 (i) Acceptance of series-based trainings may be weighted or prioritized to incentivize scaffolded learning. 

 (ii) All accepted training hours shall contribute to advancement in the career pathway system. 

 (B) Participation in normalized early childhood education-related, job-embedded, and relationship-based professional learning opportunities approved by the Department including: 

 (i) Coaching, 

 (ii) Mentoring, and 

 (iii) Facilitated Peer Learning Groups 

 (C) Oregon Department of Education-Approved, Secondary, Career Technical Education (CTE) Program of Study in Education and Training, General or Early Childhood Education, state approved program of study, without curriculum review unless requested by the high school or other similar education institution. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  329A.525 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  329A.525 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 10-2025, adopt filed 12/17/2025, effective 01/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
