



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 320 OUTDOOR NATURE-BASED CHILD CARE 
 414-320-0900 
 Furniture 
 
 (1) A certified ONB program operating with outdoor classrooms must have accessible and child-size furniture and equipment in sufficient quantity for the number of children in care. A certified ONB program may use picnic benches in sufficient quantity for the number of children in care, with adaptations to support children as needed, or provide alternative seating and surface options, such as blankets or logs. 
(2) If utilized by a certified ONB program, furniture and equipment must be: 
(a) Installed, maintained, and used according to manufacturer's specification; 
(b) Safely constructed and lead free; 
(c) Maintained in a safe working condition; 
(d) Developmentally appropriate; 
(e) Subsection (a) through (d) of this section may not apply to certified ONB programs operating in public areas where the equipment is not the property of the certified ONB program and not intended for the use of the children. 
(3) A certified ONB program must provide a safe, washable cot, rest mat or pad, or other approved sleeping surface for each preschool-age child at nap time, for each school-age child who wants to rest, and for any child that needs to be isolated due to illness.  
(a) Cots, mats, or pads must be assigned to individual children and used by one child at a time. 
(b) Cots, mats, or pads must be cleaned and sanitized when soiled and before use by another child.  
(c) Each mat or pad used for napping must be: 
(A) Covered with a durable, washable, waterproof, form-fitting material;  
(B) At least 1 inch thick; Inflatable sleeping pads must be suitable for the outdoor temperature according to the manufacturer's label. Sleeping pads intended for outdoor sleep, such as a backpacking pad, less than one inch thick must be approved by DELC. 
(C) Free of rips, tears or tape. 
(d) Mats, cots, or pads must be arranged in a manner that allows for a direct, unobstructed passage to each child. 
(e) Mats, cots, pads and bed linen must be properly stored so that sleeping surfaces are not touching each other unless cleaned and sanitized after each use. 
(4) A certified ONB program must ensure that each child is provided with individual bedding consisting of at least a sheet, blanket, or sleeping bag. 
(a) A sheet must cover the entire resting surface. 
(b) Bedding must either be marked for use by the identified child or laundered daily. 
(A) All bedding must be thoroughly cleaned and sanitized before use by another child. 
(B) If marked for use by the individual child, the bedding must be laundered weekly or more frequently if needed. 
(5) A certified ONB program must provide designated storage space for each child's clothing and personal possessions as well as space for teaching equipment, records and files, and cleaning equipment and supplies.  
(6) A certified ONB program must arrange furniture and play materials to promote and encourage independent access and use by children. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329A.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329A.280 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 2-2025, adopt filed 03/26/2025, effective 07/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
