



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 50 SCHOOL IMMUNIZATION RULES 
 333-050-0280 
 Primary Review of Records 
 
 (1) At least annually the administrator must conduct a primary review of the immunization records for each child within that children’s facility or school to determine the immunization status of each child. This review shall be completed no later than 42 calendar days prior to the fourth Wednesday in February unless otherwise requested by the local health department and approved by the Public Health Division. 

 (2) The administrator must categorize each child’s record as follows: 

 (a) Complete or Up-to-date. 

 (b) Nonmedical exemption. 

 (c) Permanent medical exemption. 

 (d) Temporary medical exemption. 

 (e) Incomplete/insufficient. 

 (f) No record. 

 (g) Children not to be counted. School age children also attending a facility should be counted by the school. Children enrolled in a school but physically attending another school should be counted by the school they physically attend. Children physically attending more than one facility or school should be counted by the facility or school where they attend the most hours. 

 (3) An administrator must provide to the local health department, the following documents for secondary review, at least 42 calendar days prior to the fourth Wednesday in February, unless otherwise requested by the local health department and approved by the Public Health Division: 

 (a) Copies of records categorized as “incomplete/insufficient” organized alphabetically by the child’s last name. 

 (b) Copies of records categorized as medical exemption, except those records that have been certified by the local health department as having a permanent medical exemption or immunity documentation and are otherwise complete with no further review required; and 

 (c) A completed Immunization Report form that includes an alphabetical list for each category and includes children with no record, an incomplete record, or a temporary medical exemption. The form must include each child's name, current grade level, parent names and current mailing address. A printout from the facility’s or the school’s computer system that has been approved in accordance with OAR 333-050-0300 is acceptable. 

 (4) The administrator shall review the completed Immunization Report form or printout to ensure accuracy and correct any errors before submitting it to the local health department. 

 (5) All copies of records provided by the administrator to the local health department must contain at least the child's name, the child’s date of birth, and the child’s evidence of immunization or exemption. An administrator should not provide original documents to the local health department. 

 (6) Additional review cycles for incomplete or insufficient records with specific timeframes are allowable if: 

 (a) Mutually agreed upon by the affected local health department and affected school or facility. 

 (b) If required at the direction of the affected local health department or the Public Health Division. 

 (7) An administrator is ultimately responsible for complying with this rule, but can delegate to others the functions of gathering the records and completing the necessary forms. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 433.004 & ORS 433.273 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 433.001, ORS 433.004, ORS 433.006 & ORS 433.235 - 433.284 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 11-2025, adopt filed 05/02/2025, effective 05/02/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
