



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 CITY GENERAL RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE 
 166-200-0465 
 Municipal Court Records 
 
 (1) Appeals Records: Series documents records related to municipal court decisions appealed to higher courts. Records may include copies of original citations, reports, driving records, evidence, original dispositions of cases, judgment orders, judge's trial notes, jury lists, jury verdict sheets, correspondence, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) DUII (Driving Under the Influence of Intoxicants) case records, 15 years after case closed; (b) All other records, 5 years after case closed. 

 (2) Court Appointed Attorney Application Records: Series documents letters of application submitted by attorneys requesting to be included on lists of court appointed attorneys designated by the court to defend certain individuals. Records may include letters of application, letters of acceptance, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 1 year. 

 (3) Court Orders and Procedural Rules: Series documents the guidelines and implementation of the State Uniform Trial Court Rules and local variations written by the judge to establish guidelines and clarify procedures for court clerks to perform duties of the court. Records may include municipal court orders and court procedural rules. Minimum retention: Current plus previous version. 

 (4) Docket/Trial Calendars: Series documents lists of dates and times set for court appearances. SEE ALSO: Trial Proceedings Records/Register of Actions for documentation of action taken. Minimum retention: 90 days. 

 (5) DUII Case Files: Series documents records related to DUII (Driving Under the Influence of Intoxicants) cases brought before the court and agreements by defendants to enter DUII diversion programs. Records may include citations, complaints, chemical analyses, diversion agreements, sentencing orders, commitment orders, license suspension notices, community service referrals, alcohol program referral notices, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 15 years after case closed . 

 (6) DUII Program/Conviction Summary Records: Series documents summaries documenting the number of convicted DUII (Driving Under the Influence of Intoxicants) cases and DUII cases diverted to court ordered medical or mental health programs. Records may include summaries of fines, forfeitures, fees charged to individuals in relation to conviction or diversion, agreement fees, conviction fees, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 5 years. 

 (7) Jury Records: Series documents records related to selecting and overseeing jurors for the court. Process includes selection of jurors and documentation of services rendered by jurors. Records may include lists of potential jurors, questionnaires, requests to be excused, juror notification cards, juror registers and sign-in sheets, jury pool statistical documentation, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 3 years. 

 (8) Municipal Court Criminal Case Files: Series documents the prosecution of non-traffic related criminal misdemeanor offenses and the disposition of cases before the court. Series may also document the preliminary hearing of felony offenses then remanded to circuit court. Action may be initiated by either citation or private complaint. Records may include citations to appear in court, complaints, warrants, police reports, subpoenas, defendant information, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 5 years after case closed or dismissed or date of last action. 

 (9) Municipal Court Expunged or Sealed Records: Series documents the arrest and/or conviction of a person who petitions and is granted by the court an order sealing or otherwise disposing of any related records (according to ORS 137.225) maintained by the Municipal Court. Also applies to records related to juveniles as outlined in ORS 419A.260 through 419A.262. SEE ALSO: Expunged or Sealed Records, Police. Minimum retention: (a) Expunged records, dispose according to the directive of the court; (b) Expungement orders, 5 years or according to the directive of the court; (c) Sealed records, 5 years or according to the directive of the court. 

 (10) Ordinance Violation Records (Code Enforcement): Series documents reported violations of city ordinance or code. Examples include environmental concerns, waste and refuse complaints, nuisances, and other non-traffic violations. Records may include citations, complaints, warrants, police reports, subpoenas, defendant information, and related documentation. SEE ALSO: Building Code Compliance and Violation Records. Minimum retention: (a) Citations issued, 5 years after case closed; (b) Records of citations not issued, 1 year after date of last action. 

 (11) Parking Citation Records: Series documents the issuance and disposition of parking citations. Records may include citations, correspondence, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 3 years after satisfied, dismissed, or deemed uncollectible. 

 (12) Traffic Citation Case Files: Series documents citations issued (including citations generated from photo radar records) and disposition of cases in court for moving violations such as hit and run and reckless driving, and infractions such as speeding and improper signaling. Records may include citations to appear in court, complaints, warrants, driving records, police reports, suspension records, disposition slips, subpoenas, and related documentation. Does not include DUII (Driving Under the Influence of Intoxicants) citation records. SEE ALSO: DUII Case Files; and Traffic, Transit, and Other Citation Records. Minimum retention: 5 years after case closed. 

 (13) Trial Proceedings Records/Register of Actions: Series documents the actions of all cases brought before the court. Types of cases may include criminal misdemeanors, including misdemeanor traffic crimes, with limited penalties; other minor traffic infractions; certain minor liquor and drug violations, parking violations; and municipal code violations such as animal and fire violations. Records may include a register of actions as described per ORS 7.020. Records may include arraignments, motions, orders, pleas, indexes, and judgments. Minimum retention: (a) Criminal cases, 5 years after case closed, dismissed, or date of last action; (b) Non-criminal cases, 5 years after case closed. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192.005 - 192.170 & ORS 357.805 - 357.895 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005 - 192.170 & ORS 357.805 - 357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-2025, adopt filed 07/03/2025, effective 07/03/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
