



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Corrections 
 Chapter 291 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 145 GROUP ACTIVITIES (AIC) 
 291-145-0045 
 Group Assets 
 
 (1) Money: 

 (a) Money generated on behalf of a club is held in trust by DOC for the benefit of a club to further their purpose, including money generated through fundraising events. At the request of the club, the FUM or designee may request a club trust account to receive contributions and make expenditures. All club trust accounts are created and approved by Central Trust. Management of the club trust account must be in accordance with the department’s rule on Trust Accounts (AIC) (OAR 291-158). 

 (A) Revenue may not be generated, and expenditures may not be made unless the club has an established trust account. 

 (B) DOC is responsible to provide oversight to ensure there are sufficient funds held in trust to cover club expenditures and that club expenditures are in alignment with the club purpose. Staff will not allow funds held in trust to be overspent. 

 (i) Clubs are responsible for managing the club trust account and making decisions on expenditures. Clubs are not allowed to run in a deficit. 

 (ii) Clubs may choose to donate from their club trust account to any entity with approval of the FUM or designee.  

 (iii) If the club is terminated, unobligated funds will be transferred to the institution's AIC Activities cost center. 

 (b) Special interest groups may not own money nor should DOC fundraise or generate revenue on their behalf. Any donations received on behalf of a special interest group is owned by DOC and will be recorded as revenue in an appropriate DOC Other Fund cost center. Donations received for a special interest group will be tracked and designated for the benefit of the special interest group. 

 (A) If a special interest group is disbanded, designated funds may be used for the benefit of other special interest groups with the approval of the FUM or designee. 

 (B) If a special interest group has not been disbanded, any exception to using donated funds other than for the benefit of the special interest group, must be approved by the Chief Financial Officer or designee. 

 (2) Property: 

 (a) Clubs may not own durable goods. All durable goods used and managed (e.g., books, banners, regalia, trophies, etc.) by a club must be approved by the FUM or designee.  An exception to this is with approval from the FUM or designee, a club may acquire and temporarily own durable goods that will be donated, sold, or distributed to an entity other than DOC. 

 (b) With the approval of the FUM or designee, clubs may own other property not classified as a durable good including food for events and raw materials used to make items such as crafts that will be donated, sold, or distributed to an entity other than DOC. 

 (c) Special interest groups may not own durable goods or other property. Durable goods and other property used by a special interest group must be approved by the FUM or designee. 

 (3) Donations 

 (a) Clubs: 

 (A) Clubs are the only AIC group that may make monetary donations. 

 (B) The FUM and the Financial Services Administrator or their designee(s) must approve all club monetary donations whether the club is the donor or the recipient. 

 (C)  Clubs may not accept grants. DOC may accept a grant with approval from the FUM and the Financial Services Administrator. 

 (D) Non-monetary donations may not be received by a club unless an exception is provided by the FUM and the Financial Services Administrator or their designee(s). 

 (E) Clubs may not donate durable goods or other property to DOC. 

 (F) Clubs may donate money to DOC for specific purposes. 

 (b) Special Interest Groups: 

 (A) Special interest groups may not accept donations. DOC may accept donations for a specified purpose, to include grants, on behalf of a special interest group with the approval of the FUM and the Financial Services Administrator or their designee(s). 

 (B) Special interest groups may not make donations. 

 (c) Miscellaneous: AICs may donate collectively from their individual trust account with the approval from the FUM or designee in accordance with the department’s rule on Trust Accounts (AIC) (OAR 291-158). 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 179.040, 179.105, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 16-2023, amend filed 12/06/2023, effective 12/06/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 14-2023, adopt filed 10/03/2023, effective 10/03/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
