



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 45 THIRD PARTY GRADING ELECTION PROCEDURES 
 603-045-0020 
 Petition Filing Requirements 
 
 (1) Any grower or handler who wants the Department to terminate its inspection of a processing plant in Oregon must contact the Administrator of the Agricultural Development and Marketing Division of the Oregon Department of Agriculture and request a petition. The Department will send the requestor an information packet and petition.  (2) The petition must specify the commodity, processing firm and location, and a petition representative. A separate petition and election will be held for each commodity and each processing plant by location.  (3) The processing plant must provide the Department a notarized statement certifying a list of all growers who deliver the commodity to that plant. The list must include each grower’s name, address, and relevant production for the period designated by the Department. The list will become the list of electors.  (4) The petitioners must meet the signature requirements of ORS 632.950.  (5) The petition representative must submit with the petition a deposit of $250 for the cost of the election. If the cost of the election exceeds the deposited amount, the petitioners must pay the difference. If the actual cost is less than the deposit, the Department will issue a refund to the petitioner(s) for the difference between the deposit and the actual cost.  (6) The Supervisor of Elections will review the petition to verify it meets the requirements of ORS 632.950. If it does, the Supervisor of Elections will notify the petition representative. If it does not, the Supervisor of Elections will notify the petition representative of the petition’s deficiencies. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 632 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 632 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 1-2002, f. & cert. ef. 1-15-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
