



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Youth Development Division - Chapter 423 
 
 
 
 
 Division 120 Juvenile Crime Prevention 
 423-120-0015 
 Juvenile Crime Prevention Program 
 
 (1)(a) The Youth Development Division shall: 

 (A) Distribute funds to counties and tribes for the purpose of funding entities and programs that provide juvenile crime prevention services; 

 (B) Develop guidelines for the development of juvenile crime prevention plans; 

 (C) Assess juvenile crime prevention plans in accordance with those guidelines; 

 (D) Require each juvenile crime prevention plan developed by a county to include a proposal for the provision of diversion services in the county by the Oregon Youth Authority pursuant to a contract entered into between the county and the authority; and 

 (E) Require each juvenile crime prevention plan developed by a county to include a proposal for detaining, sheltering, providing aftercare, treating, imposing graduated sanctions, and providing other juvenile department services in the county by the authority pursuant to a contract entered into between the county and the authority. 

 (b) In developing guidelines under subsection (1)(a)(B) of this rule, the division shall, at a minimum, develop guidelines for measuring changes in juvenile crime and recidivism. 

 (2)(a) Each board of county commissioners in this state shall designate an agency or organization to facilitate the provision of juvenile crime prevention services in the area subject to the jurisdiction of the county. 

 (b) The designated agency or organization shall facilitate the creation of partnerships between local and state public and private entities. 

 (c) The designated agency or organization shall coordinate with the local public safety coordinating council convened by the board of county commissioners pursuant to ORS 423.560 for the purpose of developing, or assisting in the development of, a juvenile crime prevention plan. The juvenile crime prevention plan must: 

 (A) Be developed in accordance with the guidelines developed by the division pursuant to subsection (1)(a)(B) of this rule; and 

 (B) Include proposals described in subsection (1)(a)(D) and (E) of this rule. 

 (d) The designated agency or organization shall submit the juvenile crime prevention plan, in a form and manner required by the division, to the division. The division shall submit the juvenile crime prevention plan to the Youth Development Council for approval. The council, in its discretion, may approve the juvenile crime prevention plan or require the plan to be resubmitted.  The council may require a juvenile crime prevention plan to be resubmitted as many times as the council deems necessary to ensure that the plan is developed in accordance with this rule. 

 (3)(a) Each tribal council in this state shall designate an agency or organization to facilitate the provision of juvenile crime prevention services in the area subject to the jurisdiction of the tribe. 

 (b) The designated agency or organization shall facilitate the creation of partnerships between tribal and state public and private entities. 

 (c) The designated agency or organization shall develop, or assist in the development of, a juvenile crime prevention plan. 

 (d) The designated agency or organization shall submit the juvenile crime prevention plan, in a form and manner required by the division, to the division. The division shall submit the juvenile crime prevention plan to the Youth Development Council for approval. The council, in its discretion, may approve the juvenile crime prevention plan or require the plan to be resubmitted.  The council may require a juvenile crime prevention plan to be resubmitted as many times as the council deems necessary to ensure that the plan is developed in accordance with this rule. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 417.847 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 417.847 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 YDD 4-2018, adopt filed 11/07/2018, effective 11/07/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
