



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 65 CULTURALLY AND LINGUISTICALLY SPECIFIC BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SERVICES(CLSS) 
 309-065-0025 
 Culturally and Linguistically Specific Services Program Qualifications 
 
 (1) In order to qualify for culturally and linguistically specific behavioral health services enhanced payments as a program, the program must: 

 (a) Be enrolled as an outpatient Medicaid Behavioral Health provider with the Oregon Health Authority (OHA) that is not prohibited by law from receiving the enhanced payment; 

 (b)  Submit a complete application to the Oregon Health Authority (OHA). 

 (c) Demonstrate the ability to serve a distinct minoritized cultural community: and 

 (d) Be primarily staffed and render services provided by people that have extensive experience working with or being immersed in the same minoritized cultural community being served; or 

 (e) Have a history of at least five years primarily serving the specified minoritized cultural community in a behavioral health setting. 

 (2) To demonstrate the ability to serve a distinct minoritized cultural community under (1) (c) of this rule , a program must provide information that shows the following:  

 (a)  Comprehensive knowledge of diverse lived experiences held by the minoritized cultural community being served including, but not limited to, their experiences of structural and individual racism, minoritization or discrimination that may have an impact on the community’s collective mental health and wellbeing. 

 (b)  Knowledge of specific behavioral health inequities documented in the minoritized cultural community being served, which may be addressed by the culturally and linguistically specific service program. 

 (c)  A practice of supporting and affirming cultural and language practices of the minoritized cultural community being served, such as but not limited to: 

 (A) Health and safety beliefs, or practices; 

 (B) Positive cultural identity, pride, or resilience; 

 (C) Immigration dynamics; or 

 (D) Religious beliefs. 

 (d) A demonstrated ability to support and affirm clients experiencing intersectional oppression in the provision of services. The ability to support and affirm the unique needs of clients experiencing intersectional oppression may be evidenced through details of established collaboration with other culturally specific providers, details of dedicated spaces or groups provided for clients experiencing intersectional oppression, or any other supporting information. 

 (3) The information required to be provided under section (1)(b) through (e) and (2) of this rule must include documentation of the organization’s culturally specific focus demonstrated in a mission statement, vision statement, or other public-facing document. Supporting information can also include but is not limited to: 

 (a) Documentation detailing policies and procedures. 

 (b) Documentation of staff training requirements and any resulting certifications. 

 (c) A narrative that details the organization or program’s, strategic plan or history and experience, including specific examples, without identifying any individual clients. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  413.042 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  HB 5202(2021) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BHS 13-2023, adopt filed 05/23/2023, effective 05/30/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
