                        OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                              POLICY
  SECTION 8:         Safety, Security, Emergency                                 POLICY: 8.037
                     Management

  SUBJECT:           Patient Property and Valuables –
                     Handling and Storage

  POINT PERSON:      Director of Security

  APPROVED:          Sean Murphy                                       DATE: AUGUST 10, 2026


                     Superintendent

  SELECT ONE:     ☐ New Policy                              ☒ Policy Revision
                  ☐ Reaffirmation of Existing Policy


I.    PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
      A. This policy explains who is responsible for taking care of patient property at
         Oregon State Hospital (OSH).
      B. All OSH Staff shall follow this policy.

II.   POLICY
      A. When a patient is admitted, OSH shall tell the patient or their representative
         about property rights, rules, and procedures. This will be done both verbally and
         in writing.
         1. Incoming patient property is handled as described in Procedures A.
             a. Staff may not throw away patient property unless allowed by OSH rules.
      B. Patients have the right to keep a reasonable number of personal items and have
         storage in their room.
         1. These rights can be limited for safety or treatment reasons.
         2. Staff can only restrict property if there are reasonable grounds to believe an
             item is unsafe or conflicts with the patient’s care plan. Restrictions shall follow
             OSH policies, including:
             a. 4.010, “Patient Funds.”
Subject: Patient Property and Valuables –                         Policy Number: 8.037
Handling and Storage
Date: August 10, 2026
                                                                           P AGE 2 OF 3

         b. 4.018, “OSH Purchases and Maintenance – Supplies, Assets, and
            Equipment.”
         c. 6.011, “Treatment Care Planning.”
         d. 6.030, “Electronic Device and Internet Access.”
         e. 6.047 “Patient Food.”
         f. 7.001, “Mail and Packages for Patients,”
         g. 7.011, “Faiths, Beliefs, and Practices,”
         h. 7.015, “Patient Rights Restrictions,”
         i.   7.017, “Native Artifacts and Property,”
         j.   8.041, “Patient Personal Searches,” and
         k. 8.044, “Contraband, Prohibited Items, Limited Access Items.”
         l.   Patient property shall be stored as described in Procedures B. Cash must
              follow OSH policy 4.010
  C. Patients may not have items that:
     1. Are not allowed in their treatment care plan (TCP),
     2. Are more than reasonable amounts allowed by this policy or by a patient’s IDT,
     3. Are contraband or prohibited, or
     4. Inappropriate clothing.
     5. Staff may not give patients items that are contraband or prohibited,
     6. Staff will help patients check in and out items with limited access as described
         in Procedures D.
  D. Unless restricted by law, the patient’s treatment care plan, the Product Risk
     Assessment (PRA) procedure in OSH Policy 4.018, or other OSH policy, items
     not on the prohibited list are allowed in reasonable amounts.
  E. OSH shall review and investigate claims if a patient’s property is lost, damaged,
     or stolen while in OSH custody per Procedures C.
  F. Staff shall not borrow, sell, buy, or trade property with patients.
  G. Patients, visitors, and staff shall follow OSH policy 7.001, “Mail and Packages for
     Patients.”
  H. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
     rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services, Shared Services, and
     Oregon Health Authority policies; and relevant accreditation standards. Such
       Subject: Patient Property and Valuables –                         Policy Number: 8.037
       Handling and Storage
       Date: August 10, 2026
                                                                                  P AGE 3 OF 3

            regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this policy is more
            restrictive.
         I. Staff who do not follow this policy may face disciplinary action.

III.     DEFINITIONS (SEE GLOSSARY)

IV.      PROCEDURES
   Procedures A           Property Movement
   Procedures B           Property Storage, Inspections, and Disposal
   Procedures C           Broken, Missing, Stolen Property
   Procedures D           Limited Access Item Check-In and Check-Out Process

V.       ATTACHMENTS

   Attachment A           Application for Patient Property Reimbursement

VI.      FORMS
   Release of Personal Property form, MR 11797 5
