                         OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                              POLICY
  SECTION 5:         Human Resources Management                                   POLICY: 5.005

  SUBJECT:           Staff-Owned Equipment

  POINT PERSON:      Chief Financial Officer/Chief
                     Operations Officer

  APPROVED:          Jim Diegel                                              DATE: JULY 6, 2026
                                   James Diegel (Jul 6, 2026 13:26:06 PDT)

                     Interim Superintendent

  SELECT ONE:     ☐ New Policy                                ☒ Policy Revision
                  ☐ Reaffirmation of Existing Policy


I.    PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
      A. This policy establishes Oregon State Hospital (OSH) guidelines for staff-owned
         equipment while conducting business for OSH.
      B. This policy does not apply to staff-owned vehicles. Staff-owned vehicles may
         only be used per OSH policy 6.006, “Vehicle Usage,” and applicable Department
         of Administrative Services or Shared Services policies and regulations.
      C. This policy applies to all Staff.

II.   POLICY
      A. Staff may not use personally owned equipment to conduct OSH business,
         including, but not limited to, patient treatment, unless an exception is authorized
         as delineated in this policy or other Department of Administrative Services (DAS)
         or Shared Services policies.
      B. Staff may request an exception to this policy in writing from the Superintendent or
         designee, the appropriate member of the Senior Leadership Team, and the
         department director or Program Director when the following conditions exist:
         1. The equipment is not available at OSH;
         2. The equipment can be operated safely and meets required safety standards;
         3. The equipment is not directly used by patients; and
         4. The staff member accepts liability for damage to, or loss of, equipment.
       Subject:                                                         Policy Number: 5.005
                  Staff-Owned Equipment
       Date:
                  July 6, 2026                                                   P AGE 2 OF 2

         C. If the Superintendent or designee, the appropriate member of the Senior
            Leadership Team, and the department director or Program Director approve the
            request for an exception, they must authorize their approval in writing before staff
            uses the equipment.
         D. For safety, security, and patient privacy reasons, staff may not use personally
            owned cellphones in patient care areas or when patients are present with them.
            Staff may only use personal cellphones to make brief phone calls during working
            hours, except when they are on break. Departments may establish additional
            restrictions for safety reasons.
         E. All information on any device used while conducting state business (e.g., any
            text, browsing history) is discoverable under public records requests state laws.
         F. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
            and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
            (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
            relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
            this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
         G. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
            may be subject to disciplinary action.

III.     DEFINITIONS (SEE GLOSSARY)

IV.      PROCEDURES
   None

V.       ATTACHMENTS
   None

VI.      RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   3.002 Electrical Equipment and Resource Conservation
   5.017 Dress Code for Staff
   8.034 Property Claims for Employee Personal Property
   8.006 Vehicle Usage
