                         OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                               POLICY
  SECTION 5:         Human Resource Management                                    POLICY: 5.016

  SUBJECT:           Adults in Custody Workforce

  POINT PERSON:      Director of Operations (Change
                     to CFO/COO)

  APPROVED:          Jim Diegel                                              DATE: JULY 6, 2026
                                   James Diegel (Jul 6, 2026 13:27:49 PDT)

                     Interim Superintendent

  SELECT ONE:     ☐ New Policy                                ☐ Policy Revision
                  ☒ Reaffirmation of Existing Policy


I.    PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
      A. This policy establishes Oregon State Hospital (OSH) procedures for a workforce
         of adults in custody working at OSH.
      B. This policy applies to all Staff.

II.   POLICY
      A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) may use an adult in custody worker for special
         projects or temporarily for work normally completed by permanent staff until
         requests for positions can be made through the budgetary process. OSH may not
         assign an adult-in-custody worker a task that could be assigned to a patient-
         supported employment position.
      B. The OSH Operations department is responsible for the adults-in-custody
         workforce, including coordinating with the Department of Corrections (DOC) and
         approving adults-in-custody worker positions in collaboration with the
         Superintendent or designee.
      C. Staff shall follow Procedures A when requesting and overseeing an adult-in-
         custody worker.
      D. Mill Creek Correctional Facility (MCCF) guards and adults in custody shall follow
         OSH policy 2.003 on infectious disease management.
Subject: Adults in Custody Workforce                           Policy Number: 5.016

Date: July 6, 2026
                                                                           P AGE 2 OF 3

  E. MCCF shall provide the following documentation to the OSH Infection Prevention
     and Employee Health Department (IPEH) for both the adults in custody and
     guards:
     1. Influenza vaccination status for the current influenza season,
     2. Tuberculosis infection status as per Oregon Administrative Rule 333-019-
        0041 and in accordance with IPEH processes, and
     3. Hepatitis B immunization status.
  F. An adult in custody shall:
     1. Sign the OSH confidentiality statement (OSH-STK 76113) before beginning
        work at OSH;
     2. Wear an OSH-issued name badge during the work shift as per OSH policy
        8.007, “Identification Badges.”
     3. Obtain a food handler card before beginning work in a kitchen;
     4. Receive training on standard precautions and personal protective equipment;
     5. Receive training about chemicals and where to locate safety data sheets; and
     6. Complete the orientation provided by the OSH Facilities department.
  G. An adult in custody may not:
     1. Have unsupervised interaction with or association with patients,
     2. Access any staff or patient information,
     3. Be employed to substitute for state staff,
     4. Perform reception duties,
     5. Use telephones, computers, or fax machines,
     6. Leave OSH grounds without a correctional guard escort, or
     7. Use power tools unless the adult in custody has received documented and
        approved training to operate the equipment and is provided instruction on
        using required personal protective equipment.
  H. Any program or department using adult in custody workers shall have a staff
     member at the worksite who has completed the MCCF “Adult in Custody Worker”
     training.
       Subject: Adults in Custody Workforce                             Policy Number: 5.016

       Date: July 6, 2026
                                                                                 P AGE 3 OF 3

         I. A staff member who has strong objections to working in close proximity to an
            adult in custody worker shall be accommodated to the degree possible.
         J. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
            and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
            (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
            relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
            this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
         K. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
            may be subject to disciplinary action.

III.     DEFINITIONS (SEE GLOSSARY)

IV.      PROCEDURES
   Procedures A             Adult in Custody Worker Process

V.       ATTACHMENTS
   None

VI.      RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   2.003 Infectious Disease Management for Staff
   2.017 Influenza Prevention
   5.020 Staff and Adult in Custody Worker Relationships
   8.007 Identification Badges
   Oregon State Hospital Confidentiality and Access Agreement (OSH-STK 76113) [form].
