                         OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                              POLICY
SECTION 6:           Patient Care                                               POLICY: 6.053

SUBJECT:             Educational Services for Patients
                     18 through 21 Years of Age

POINT PERSON:        Director of VESPN

APPROVED:            Sean Murphy                                      DATE: AUGUST 10, 2026


                     Superintendent

SELECT ONE:       ☐ New Policy                             ☒ Policy Revision
                  ☐ Reaffirmation of Existing Policy


I.       PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
      A. This policy describes Oregon State Hospital (OSH) and educational services
         provided to patients 18 through 21 years of age through the associated
         Educational Services District (ESD).
      B. This policy applies to all Staff.

II.      POLICY
      A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH), in compliance with the Individuals with Disabilities in
         Education Act (IDEA), the Oregon Department of Education (ODE) has contracted
         with local Education Services Districts (ESDs) to establish school programs within
         the Oregon State Hospital (OSH) and staff them with licensed educators to provide
         free, appropriate public education (FAPE) to school-aged adults.
      B. Per Policy Attachment:
         1. Educational services must be offered to eligible patients. Unless exceptions in
            OAR 581-015-2045 apply, the Education Service District (ESD) education
            specialist must offer enrollment to each patient who:
             a. Patient is 18 to 21 years of age (21st birthday falls within current school
                calendar year), and
             b. is determined by OSH to be clinically and medically able to receive
                educational services.
         2. Patients may voluntarily decline enrollment in educational services.
        SUBJECT :          Educational Services for Patients           POLICY NUMBER : 6.053
                           18 through 21 Years of Age
        DATE:              August 10, 2026                                         Page 2 of 2

          3. A patient’s participation in educational services may be temporarily paused by
             the patient’s interdisciplinary team (IDT) or education specialist if the patient’s
             clinical behavior or security risk indicates that exclusion from school is
             warranted.
          4. For units or individuals under medical isolation or other precautions for acute
             illness or serious, highly infectious disease (e.g., COVID-19, flu, norovirus,
             etc.), the ESD’s hospital program will determine the appropriate method for
             instruction delivery. Accommodation shall be made during the period of
             isolation, other precautions, or illness, and the educational specialist must
             communicate the plan to the patient and the IDT.
       C. The education specialist may participate in the patient’s treatment and attend
          Treatment Care Planning meetings as necessary.
          1. The education specialist must provide written progress to the IDT on each
             patient enrolled in educational services according to OSH policy 6.045,
             “Clinical Documentation.”
          2. The education specialist may be asked to appear before or provide
             information to patient review boards, including, but not limited to, OSH Risk
             Review Panel.
       D. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
          and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
          (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
          relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
          this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
       E. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
          may be subject to disciplinary action.

III.      DEFINITIONS (SEE GLOSSARY)

IV.       PROCEDURES
       Procedures A     School Enrollment

V.        ATTACHMENTS

          None
