                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                              POLICY
SECTION 8:        Safety, Security, Emergency                                   POLICY: 8.004
                  Management

SUBJECT:          Criminal Offender Information
                  Access

POINT PERSON:     Chief Financial Officer/Chief
                  Operations Officer

APPROVED:         Jim Diegel                                              DATE: JULY 6, 2026
                                James Diegel (Jul 6, 2026 13:33:24 PDT)

                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:     ☐ New Policy                                ☒ Policy Revision
                ☐ Reaffirmation of Existing Policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY

       A. This policy establishes Oregon State Hospital (OSH) parameters for access
          to criminal history information.

       B. This policy applies to all Staff.

 II.   POLICY
   A. OSH requires access to criminal history information to perform its designated
      functions, including:
       1. Providing secure evaluation and treatment plans, services, and settings for
          persons committed to the Oregon Health Authority (OHA);
       2. Consulting with the courts in commitment proceedings in assessing a
          person's dangerousness before the court's decision;
       3. Reporting and clearing of patients on unauthorized leave from OSH;
       4. Screening of visitors to patients; and
       5. Screening applicants for Volunteer Services, contract employees, and Service
          Providers who may have direct contact with patients or adults in custody.
   B. OSH restricts the use of criminal offender information in accordance with set
      guidelines. Information received from the Oregon State Police, including Law
Subject: Criminal Offender Information                           Policy Number: 8.004
Access
Date: July 6, 2026
                                                                           P AGE 2 OF 4

     Enforcement Data System (LEDS) reports, may not be used for any purpose
     other than that for which it is obtained and may not be disseminated to
     unauthorized persons or agencies.
     1. In the event that a patient's criminal offender information is requested, staff
        shall adhere to OSH’s policies and procedures regarding the release of
        information.
     2. LEDS reports obtained for the purposes stated in this policy may not be
        released by OSH.
     3. LEDS reports or documents containing LEDS information shall be maintained
        in secure files until destroyed and must be treated in a manner that does not
        permit use in later proceedings.
     4. LEDS reports may not be printed or stored outside the designated LEDS
        folder.
     5. LEDS reports may not be included in patient files, including the medical
        record.
     6. LEDS reports shall be deleted from the LEDS folder after three months.
  C. A request for patient criminal offender information may be made and viewed only
     by Criminal Justice Information System (CJIS)-cleared staff involved in diagnosis,
     evaluation, or treatment of:
     1. A person currently receiving care and treatment at OSH; or
     2. A person committed or who is being considered for commitment as a patient.
  D. The Admissions Office and Forensic Evaluation Services shall complete a
     request for LEDS before each patient admission.
  E. Criminal history information run in the Oregon Criminal History & Abuse Records
     Database System (ORCHARDS) for employment, volunteering, or internship may
     be used only as a reference to identify the source of original records or in direct
     discussion with a subject individual with the Office of Human Resources.
  F. Criminal offender information relating to a subject individual for employment or a
     current staff shall be processed in accordance with OSH policy 5.021,
     “Background Checks for Staff,” and applicable rules.
     1. The applicant shall sign a consent form authorizing the criminal offender
        information check.
 Subject: Criminal Offender Information                            Policy Number: 8.004
 Access
 Date: July 6, 2026
                                                                            P AGE 3 OF 4

        2. A refusal to sign a consent form for ORCHARDS- criminal records review or a
           false swearing to an arrest or non-conviction of a crime may be cause to deny
           employment, volunteer position.
        3. Further checks may be made when the Superintendent or Human Resources
           Manager determines such review is necessary.
    G. Any staff shall notify the office of Human Resources (HR) manager within five
       days upon being arrested, charged, or convicted for any crime per OAR 407-007-
       0020. Conviction of a crime may be cause for termination of employment,
       volunteer position, internship, or contractor status.
    H. LEDS requests shall be addressed in a timely manner per Procedures A.
    I. Staff performing designated functions for OSH must complete CJIS security
       training before accessing LEDS reports and shall recertify every year for
       continued access.
    J. State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal and
       state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS),
       Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant
       accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy
       unless this policy is more restrictive.
    K. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
       may be subject to disciplinary action.

 III.   DEFINITIONS (SEE GLOSSARY)

 IV.    PROCEDURES
    Procedures A      Law Enforcement Data Systems (LEDS) Requests

 V. ATTACHMENTS
    None

VI. RELATED OSH FORMS
    None

VII. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS

        2.006 Public Records Retention and Destruction

        2.008 Privacy and Security of Patient Information
Subject: Criminal Offender Information                      Policy Number: 8.004
Access
Date: July 6, 2026
                                                                       P AGE 4 OF 4

     2.018 Complete Medical Record

     5.003 Driver License Record and Vehicle Registration Access

     5.008 Equal Opportunity Employment or Non-Discrimination

     5.016 Adults in Custody Workforce

     5.018 Volunteers

     5.021 Background Checks for Staff

     6.021 Release of Information, Communication with Family, Others

     6.045 Clinical Documentation

     7.014 Medical Records Patient Requests

     8.018 Unauthorized Leave

     8.026 Visitors to Patients

     9.010 Interns
