 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 


 Chapter
63 — Limited Liability Companies 

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

   

 LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES 

   

 CORPORATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS 

   

 GENERAL PROVISIONS 

   

 (Definitions) 

   

 63.001       Definitions 

   

 63.002       Inclusion of limited
liability companies and managers and members of limited liability companies in
definitions 

   

 (Filing Documents) 

   

 63.004       Filing requirements 

   

 63.007       Filing, service,
copying and certification fees 

   

 63.011       Effective time and
date of document 

   

 63.014       Correcting filed
document 

   

 63.016       Forms; rules 

   

 63.017       Filing duty of
Secretary of State 

   

 63.021       Appeal from Secretary
of State’s refusal to file document 

   

 63.024       Evidentiary effect of
copy of filed document 

   

 63.027       Certificate of
existence or authorization 

   

 (Secretary of State) 

   

 63.031       Powers 

   

 63.032       Investigations of
violations of chapter; confidentiality; penalties; administrative dissolution;
rules 

   

 (Notice) 

   

 63.034       Knowledge and notice 

   

 ORGANIZATION 

   

 63.044       Formation 

   

 63.047       Articles of
organization 

   

 63.051       Organization 

   

 63.054       Liability for preorganization
transactions 

   

 63.057       Operating agreements 

   

 PURPOSES AND POWERS 

   

 63.074       Purposes; prohibition
on illegal purposes 

   

 63.077       General powers 

   

 NAME 

   

 63.094       Limited liability
company name 

   

 63.097       Reserved name 

   

 63.101       Registered name 

   

 OFFICE AND AGENT 

   

 63.111       Registered office and
registered agent 

   

 63.114       Change of registered
office or registered agent 

   

 63.117       Resignation of
registered agent 

   

 63.121       Service on limited
liability company 

   

 MANAGEMENT AND MANAGEMENT RIGHTS OF
MEMBERS 

   

 63.130       Rights of members and
managers; matters requiring consent of all or majority of members 

   

 63.140       Agency power of
managers and members; interest in real property 

   

 63.155       Duties and standard of
conduct 

   

 63.160       Limitation of
liability and indemnification 

   

 63.165       Liability of members
and managers 

   

 63.170       Liability of limited
liability company for acts, omissions or conduct of member or manager 

   

 FINANCES 

   

 63.175       Contributions 

   

 63.180       Liability for
contributions 

   

 63.185       Allocation of profits
and losses 

   

 DISTRIBUTIONS AND WITHDRAWAL 

   

 63.195       Allocation of interim
distributions 

   

 63.200       Right to interim
distributions 

   

 63.205       Voluntary withdrawal
of member 

   

 63.209       Expulsion of member 

   

 63.219       Distribution in kind 

   

 63.225       Right to distribution 

   

 63.229       Limitations on
distribution 

   

 63.235       Liability for wrongful
distribution 

   

 MEMBERSHIP INTEREST 

   

 63.239       Nature of membership
interest 

   

 63.245       Admission of members 

   

 63.249       Assignment of
membership interest; effect of assignment 

   

 63.255       Rights of assignee who
becomes member 

   

 63.259       Rights of judgment
creditor against member 

   

 63.265       Cessation of
membership 

   

 AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES OF
ORGANIZATION AND OPERATING AGREEMENT 

   

 63.431       Operating agreement 

   

 63.434       Amendment to articles
of organization 

   

 63.437       Restated articles of
organization 

   

 63.441       Amendment by managers 

   

 63.444       Amendment by members 

   

 CONVERSIONS AND MERGERS 

   

 63.467       Definitions for ORS
63.467 to 63.497 

   

 63.470       Conversion 

   

 63.473       Action on plan of
conversion 

   

 63.476       Articles and plan of
conversion 

   

 63.479       Effect of conversion;
entity existence continues; assumed business name 

   

 63.481       Merger 

   

 63.487       Action on plan of
merger 

   

 63.494       Articles and plan of
merger 

   

 63.497       Effect of merger 

   

 DISSOLUTION 

   

 (Generally) 

   

 63.621       Dissolution 

   

 63.625       Distribution of assets
upon dissolution 

   

 63.629       Agency power of
members and managers after dissolution 

   

 63.631       Articles of
dissolution 

   

 63.637       Effect of dissolution;
winding up 

   

 63.641       Known claims against
dissolved limited liability company 

   

 63.644       Unknown claims against
dissolved limited liability company; use of insurance assets of dissolved
company 

   

 63.645       Enforcement of claims
against dissolved limited liability company 

   

 (Administrative Dissolution) 

   

 63.647       Grounds for
administrative dissolution 

   

 63.651       Procedure; effect of
administrative dissolution 

   

 63.654       Reinstatement
following administrative dissolution 

   

 63.657       Appeal from denial of
reinstatement 

   

 (Judicial Dissolution) 

   

 63.661       Grounds for judicial
dissolution; finding that limited liability company is shell entity; prima
facie showing by Attorney General; effects; affirmative defenses 

   

 63.664       Procedure for judicial
dissolution 

   

 63.671       Judgment of
dissolution 

   

 (Disposition of Assets) 

   

 63.674       Deposit with State
Treasurer 

   

 FOREIGN LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES 

   

 (Authority to Transact Business) 

   

 63.701       Authority to transact
business required 

   

 63.704       Consequences of
transacting business without authority 

   

 63.707       Application for
authority to transact business 

   

 63.711       Amendment to
application for authority 

   

 63.714       Effect of authority 

   

 63.717       Name of foreign
limited liability company 

   

 63.721       Registered office and
registered agent of foreign limited liability company 

   

 63.724       Change of registered
office or registered agent of foreign limited liability company 

   

 63.727       Resignation of
registered agent of a foreign limited liability company 

   

 63.731       Service on a foreign
limited liability company 

   

 (Withdrawal) 

   

 63.734       Withdrawal of foreign
limited liability company 

   

 (Revocation of Authority) 

   

 63.737       Grounds for revocation 

   

 63.741       Procedure for and
effect of revocation 

   

 63.744       Appeal from revocation 

   

 63.747       Reinstatement of
authority 

   

 RECORDS AND REPORTS 

   

 (Records) 

   

 63.771       Limited liability
company records 

   

 63.777       Scope of inspection
right 

   

 63.781       Court-ordered
inspection 

   

 (Reports) 

   

 63.784       Certain expense
reports to members 

   

 63.787       Annual report;
updates; rules 

   

 DERIVATIVE PROCEEDINGS 

   

 63.801       Derivative proceedings 

   

 STATE TAXATION 

   

 63.810       Taxation of limited
liability companies and members 

   

 MISCELLANEOUS 

   

 63.951       Short title 

   

 63.955       Interstate application 

   

 63.960       Applicability of
chapter to practice of dentistry 

   

 63.965       Reservation of power
to amend or repeal; effect of amendment or repeal 

   

 PENALTY 

   

 63.990       Penalty for signing
false document 

   

 63.992       Liability for certain
actions in connection with operation of shell entity; actions as false claim;
enforcement by civil action 

   

 GENERAL PROVISIONS 

   

 (Definitions) 

   

       63.001
Definitions. As
used in this chapter: 

       (1) “Anniversary”
means the day each year that is exactly one or more years after: 

       (a) The date on
which the Secretary of State files the articles of organization for a domestic
limited liability company. 

       (b) The date on
which the Secretary of State files a foreign limited liability company’s
application for authority to transact business in this state. 

       (2) “Articles of
organization” means the document described in ORS 63.047 that forms a limited
liability company, including articles of organization as the articles of
organization may be amended or restated, articles of conversion and articles of
merger. 

       (3) “Bankruptcy”
means: 

       (a) A member’s
assignment for the benefit of creditors; 

       (b) A member’s
commencement of a voluntary bankruptcy case; 

       (c) Adjudication
of a member as bankrupt or insolvent; 

       (d) A member’s
filing of a petition or answer to seek for the member any reorganization,
arrangement, composition, readjustment, liquidation, dissolution or similar
relief under any statute, law or rule; 

       (e) A member’s
filing of an answer or other pleading that admits or fails to contest the
material allegations of a petition filed against the member in a bankruptcy
procedure; 

       (f) Seeking,
consenting to or acquiescing in the appointment of a trustee, receiver or
liquidator of the member or of all or any substantial part of the member’s
properties; 

       (g) A
commencement of an involuntary bankruptcy case against a member that has not
been dismissed on or before the 120th day after the commencement of the case; 

       (h) An
appointment, without the member’s consent, of a trustee, receiver or liquidator
either of the member or of all or any substantial part of the member’s
properties that is not vacated or stayed on or before the 90th day after the
appointment; or 

       (i) An
appointment described in paragraph (h) of this subsection that is not vacated
on or before the 90th day after the stay described in paragraph (h) of this
subsection expires. 

       (4) “Contribution”
means anything of value that a person contributes to the limited liability
company as a prerequisite for or in connection with membership including cash,
property or services rendered or a promissory note or other binding obligation
to contribute cash or property or to perform services. 

       (5) “Corporation”
or “domestic corporation” means a corporation for profit that is incorporated
under ORS chapter 60. 

       (6) “Distribution”
means a direct or indirect transfer of money or other property, except of a
limited liability company’s own interests, or a limited liability company’s
incurrence of indebtedness to or for the benefit of the limited liability
company’s members in respect of a member’s interests, whether in the form of a
declaration or payment of profits, a purchase, retirement or other acquisition
of interests, a distribution of indebtedness, or otherwise. 

       (7) “Domestic
nonprofit corporation” means a corporation not for profit that is incorporated
under ORS chapter 65. 

       (8) “Domestic
professional corporation” means a corporation that is organized under ORS
chapter 58 for the purpose of rendering professional services and for the
purposes provided under ORS chapter 58. 

       (9) “Entity”
means a domestic or foreign limited liability company, corporation,
professional corporation, foreign corporation, domestic or foreign nonprofit
corporation, domestic or foreign cooperative corporation, profit or nonprofit
unincorporated association, business trust, domestic or foreign general or
limited partnership, two or more persons that have a joint or common economic
interest, any state, the United States, a federally recognized Native American
or American Indian tribal government or any foreign government. 

       (10) “Foreign
corporation” means a corporation for profit that is incorporated under laws
other than the laws of the state. 

       (11) “Foreign
limited liability company” means an entity that is an unincorporated
association organized under laws other than the laws of the state and that is
organized under a statute under which an association may be formed that affords
to each of the entity’s members limited liability with respect to the
liabilities of the entity. 

       (12) “Foreign
limited partnership” means a limited partnership formed under laws other than
the laws of the state and that has as partners one or more general partners and
one or more limited partners. 

       (13) “Foreign
nonprofit corporation” means a corporation not for profit that is organized
under laws other than the laws of the state. 

       (14) “Foreign
professional corporation” means a professional corporation that is organized
under laws other than the laws of the state. 

       (15) “Incompetency”
means the entry of a judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction adjudicating
the member incompetent to manage the member’s person or estate. 

       (16) “Individual”
means a natural person. 

       (17) “Limited
liability company” or “domestic limited liability company” means an entity that
is an unincorporated association that has one or more members and is organized
under this chapter. 

       (18) “Limited
partnership” or “domestic limited partnership” means a partnership formed by
two or more persons under ORS chapter 70 that has one or more general partners
and one or more limited partners. 

       (19) “Manager”
means a person, not necessarily a member, that the members of a manager-managed
limited liability company designate to manage the limited liability company’s
business and affairs. 

       (20) “Manager-managed
limited liability company” means a limited liability company that is designated
as a manager-managed limited liability company in the limited liability company’s
articles of organization or the articles of organization of which otherwise
expressly provide that a manager will manage the limited liability company. 

       (21)(a) “Member”
means a person with both an ownership interest in a limited liability company
and all the rights and obligations of a member specified under this chapter. 

       (b) “Member” does
not include an assignee of an ownership interest that has not also acquired the
voting and other rights appurtenant to membership. 

       (22) “Member-managed
limited liability company” means a limited liability company other than a
manager-managed limited liability company. 

       (23) “Membership
interest” means a member’s collective rights in a limited liability company,
including the member’s share of profits and losses of the limited liability
company, the right to receive distributions of the limited liability company’s
assets and any right to vote or participate in management. 

       (24) “Office,”
when used to refer to the administrative unit directed by the Secretary of
State, means the office of the Secretary of State. 

       (25) “Operating
agreement” means any valid agreement, written or oral, of the member or members
as to the affairs of a limited liability company and the conduct of the limited
liability company’s business. 

       (26) “Organizer”
means one of the signers of the initial articles of organization. 

       (27) “Party”
includes an individual who was, is or is threatened to be made a named
defendant or respondent in a proceeding. 

       (28) “Person”
means an individual or entity. 

       (29)(a) “Principal
office” means the physical street address of an office, in or out of this
state, where the principal executive offices of a domestic or foreign limited
liability company are located and designated in the annual report or in the
application for authority to transact business in this state. 

       (b) “Principal
office” does not include a mail forwarding business, a virtual office or a
commercial mail receiving agency, except that a commercial mail receiving
agency is a principal office if the physical street address of the principal
executive offices of the domestic or foreign corporation is the same as the
physical street address of the commercial mail receiving agency. 

       (30) “Proceeding”
means any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding whether
civil, criminal, administrative or investigatory and whether formal or
informal. 

       (31) “Shell
entity” means an entity that has the characteristics described in ORS 63.661
(1)(a)(C)(i). 

       (32) “State,”
when referring to a part of the United States, means a state, commonwealth,
territory or insular possession of the United States and the agencies and
governmental subdivisions of the state, commonwealth, territory or insular
possession. 

       (33) “United
States” means the federal government and a district, authority, bureau,
commission, department or any other agency of the United States. [1993 c.173 §2;
1995 c.93 §1; 1997 c.646 §1; 1999 c.86 §1; 1999 c.362 §28; 2001 c.315 §34; 2005
c.107 §3; 2009 c.14 §3; 2009 c.294 §6; 2017 c.705 §18; 2025 c.158 §3] 

   

       63.002
Inclusion of limited liability companies and managers and members of limited
liability companies in definitions. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, throughout Oregon Revised Statutes: 

       (1) Wherever the
term “person” is defined to include both a corporation and a partnership, the
term “person” shall also include a limited liability company. 

       (2) Wherever a
section of Oregon Revised Statutes applies to both “partners” and “directors,”
the section shall also apply: 

       (a) In a limited
liability company with one or more managers, to the managers of the limited liability
company. 

       (b) In a limited
liability company without managers, to the members of the limited liability
company. 

       (3) Wherever a
section of Oregon Revised Statutes applies to both “partners” and “shareholders,”
the section shall also apply to members of a limited liability company. [1995
c.93 §25] 

   

 (Filing Documents) 

   

       63.004 Filing
requirements. 
(1)(a) For the Secretary of State to file a document under this chapter, the
document must: 

       (A) Satisfy the
requirements set forth in this section and any other requirements in this
chapter that supplement or modify the requirements set forth in this section. 

       (B) Be a type of
document that this chapter or another law requires or permits a person to file
with the Secretary of State. 

       (C) Include the
information this chapter requires. 

       (D) Be legibly
written in the English language and in the alphabet used to write the English
language, except as provided in subsections (3) and (4) of this section. 

       (E) Be delivered
to the Secretary of State along with required fees. Delivery occurs only when
the Secretary of State actually receives the document. 

       (b) The document
may include: 

       (A) Information
other than the information required under paragraph (a) of this subsection; 

       (B) Arabic or
Roman numerals and incidental punctuation; 

       (C) The seal of
the limited liability company or foreign limited liability company; 

       (D) An
attestation by the secretary or an assistant secretary of the limited liability
company or foreign limited liability company; or 

       (E) An
acknowledgement, verification or proof. 

       (2)(a) Unless
otherwise specified in this chapter, a document that under this chapter must be
filed with the Secretary of State must be executed in the following manner: 

       (A) Articles of
organization must be signed by or on behalf of one or more persons that intend
to form the limited liability company. 

       (B) At least one
member or manager must sign articles of amendment and each annual report. 

       (C) A receiver,
trustee or other court-appointed fiduciary, must sign a document if the limited
liability company or foreign limited liability company is subject to the
control of the receiver, trustee or fiduciary. 

       (D) An agent of a
person identified in this paragraph may execute a document, if the person
authorizes the agent to execute the document. 

       (b) The person
that executes the document shall: 

       (A) Declare,
above the person’s signature and under penalty of perjury, that the document
does not fraudulently conceal, fraudulently obscure, fraudulently alter or
otherwise misrepresent the identity of the person or any of the members,
managers, employees or agents of the limited liability company or foreign
limited liability company on behalf of which the person signs; and 

       (B) State beneath
or opposite the person’s signature the person’s name and the capacity in which
the person signs. 

       (3)(a) If under
ORS 63.016 the Secretary of State has prescribed a mandatory form for a
document, including an electronic form, the document must be in or on the
prescribed form. 

       (b) The Secretary
of State shall make versions of the form described in paragraph (a) of this
subsection available in at least the five languages that are most commonly
spoken and written in this state by persons with limited proficiency in the
English language. Each version of the form must include an English translation
of the form’s contents. 

       (c) For the
purpose described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary of State
shall specify Spanish, Chinese, Vietnamese, Russian and Korean as the five
languages that are most commonly spoken and written in this state by persons
with limited proficiency in the English language. The Secretary of State shall
review the specification in this paragraph after the completion of the 2030
United States Census and each subsequent decennial census and shall recommend
in a report to the Joint Committee on Ways and Means any changes in the
specification that the Secretary of State deems necessary. The Secretary of
State may change the specification only after receiving the approval of the
Legislative Assembly and an appropriation in an amount that is sufficient to
pay the costs of updating each version of the mandatory form and any system the
Secretary of State uses to process the mandatory form. 

       (d) If a person
completes with, or attaches to, a form described in paragraph (a) or (b) of
this subsection information written in a language other than English, the
person shall submit a reasonably authenticated English translation of the
information along with the form. 

       (4) A certificate
of existence required for a foreign limited liability company may be written in
a language other than English if a reasonably authenticated English translation
accompanies the certificate. [1993 c.173 §3; 2013 c.159 §6; 2017 c.705 §19;
2019 c.597 §4] 

   

       63.007 Filing,
service, copying and certification fees. The Secretary of State shall collect the fees
described in ORS 56.140 for each document delivered for filing under this
chapter and for process served on the secretary under this chapter. The
secretary may collect the fees described in ORS 56.140 for copying any public
record under this chapter, certifying the copy or certifying to other facts of
record under this chapter. [1993 c.173 §4; 1995 c.93 §2; 1999 c.362 §§29,29a] 

   

       63.010 [Repealed by 1959 c.580 §104] 

   

       63.011
Effective time and date of document. 
(1) Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section and ORS 63.014 (3), a
document accepted for filing is effective on the date it is filed by the
Secretary of State and at the time, if any, specified in the document as its
effective time or at 12:01 a.m. on that date if no effective time is specified. 

       (2) If a document
specifies a delayed effective time and date, the document becomes effective at
the time and date specified. If a document specifies a delayed effective date
but no time, the document becomes effective at 12:01 a.m. on that date. A delayed
effective date for a document may not be later than the 90th day after the date
it is filed. [1993 c.173 §5] 

   

       63.014
Correcting filed document. 
(1) A domestic or foreign limited liability company may correct a document
filed by the Secretary of State, other than an annual report, if the document
contains an incorrect statement or was defectively executed, attested, sealed,
verified or acknowledged. 

       (2) A domestic or
foreign limited liability company shall correct a document by delivering
articles of correction to the office. The articles shall include the following: 

       (a) A description
of the document, including its filing date, or a copy of the document. 

       (b) The incorrect
statement and the reason it is incorrect, or a description of the manner in
which the execution, attestation, seal, verification or acknowledgment is
defective. 

       (c) A correction
of the incorrect statement or defective execution, attestation, seal,
verification or acknowledgment. 

       (3) Articles of
correction are effective on the effective date of the document they correct
except as to persons relying on the uncorrected document and adversely affected
by the correction. As to those persons, articles of correction are effective
when filed. [1993 c.173 §6] 

   

       63.016 Forms;
rules. Upon
request, the Secretary of State may furnish forms for documents required or
permitted to be filed by this chapter. The Secretary of State may by rule
require the use of the forms. [1993 c.173 §7; 1995 c.215 §10] 

   

       63.017 Filing
duty of Secretary of State. 
(1) If a document delivered to the Office of the Secretary of State for filing
satisfies the requirements of ORS 63.004, the Secretary of State shall file the
document. 

       (2) The Secretary
of State files a document by indicating on the document that the Secretary of
State filed the document, along with the date of filing. Except as provided in
ORS 63.114, 63.117, 63.671, 63.674, 63.724, 63.727 and 63.787, after filing a document
the Secretary of State shall return an acknowledgment of filing to the domestic
or foreign limited liability company or the representative of the domestic or
foreign limited liability company. 

       (3) If the
Secretary of State refuses to file a document, the Secretary of State shall
return the document to the domestic or foreign limited liability company or the
representative of the domestic or foreign limited liability company within 10
business days after the document was delivered, together with a brief written
explanation of the reason for the refusal. 

       (4) The Secretary
of State’s duty to file documents under this section is ministerial. The
Secretary of State is not required to verify or inquire into the legality or
truth of any matter included in any document delivered to the office for
filing. The Secretary of State’s filing or refusing to file a document does
not: 

       (a) Affect the
validity or invalidity of the document in whole or part; or 

       (b) Relate to the
correctness or incorrectness of information contained in the document. 

       (5) The Secretary
of State’s refusal to file a document does not create a presumption that the
document is invalid or that information contained in the document is incorrect.
[1993 c.173 §8; 1999 c.486 §9; 2013 c.159 §7] 

   

       63.020 [Repealed by 1959 c.580 §104] 

   

       63.021 Appeal
from Secretary of State’s refusal to file document. If the Secretary of State refuses
to file a document delivered to the office for filing, the domestic or foreign
limited liability company, in addition to any other legal remedy which may be
available, shall have the right to appeal from such order pursuant to the
provisions of ORS chapter 183. [1993 c.173 §9] 

   

       63.024
Evidentiary effect of copy of filed document. (1) A certificate attached to a copy of a document
filed by the Secretary of State, bearing the Secretary of State’s signature,
which may be in facsimile, is conclusive evidence that the document or a
facsimile thereof is on file with the office. 

       (2) The
provisions of ORS 56.110 shall apply to all documents filed pursuant to this
chapter. [1993 c.173 §10] 

   

       63.027
Certificate of existence or authorization. (1) Anyone may apply to the Secretary of State to
furnish a certificate of existence for a domestic limited liability company or
a certificate of authorization for a foreign limited liability company. 

       (2) A certificate
of existence or authorization when issued means that: 

       (a) The domestic
limited liability company’s name or the foreign limited liability company’s
name is registered in this state; 

       (b) The domestic
limited liability company is duly organized under the laws of this state or the
foreign limited liability company is authorized to transact business in this
state; 

       (c) All fees
payable to the Secretary of State under this chapter have been paid, if
nonpayment affects the existence or authorization of the domestic or foreign
limited liability company; 

       (d) An annual
report required by ORS 63.787 has been filed by the Secretary of State within
the preceding 14 months; and 

       (e) Articles of
dissolution or an application for withdrawal have not been filed by the
Secretary of State. 

       (3) Subject to
any qualification stated in the certificate, a certificate of existence or
authorization issued by the Secretary of State may be relied upon as conclusive
evidence that the domestic or foreign limited liability company is in existence
or is authorized to transact business in this state. [1993 c.173 §11] 

   

       63.030 [Repealed by 1959 c.580 §104] 

   

 (Secretary of State) 

   

       63.031 Powers. The Secretary of State has the
power reasonably necessary to perform the duties required of the Secretary of
State by this chapter. [1993 c.173 §12] 

   

       63.032
Investigations of violations of chapter; confidentiality; penalties;
administrative dissolution; rules. 
(1)(a) The Secretary of State may investigate an alleged or potential violation
of this chapter and, in the course of the investigation or in response to a
request from a law enforcement agency, may order a limited liability company
to: 

       (A) Prepare and
submit to the Secretary of State within 30 days the list described in ORS
63.771 (1)(a); and 

       (B) Answer within
30 days any interrogatory that is related to an alleged or potential violation
of this chapter that the Secretary of State submits to the limited liability
company. 

       (b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of ORS 192.311 to 192.478, the list described in
paragraph (a)(A) of this subsection and information that the Secretary of State
obtains from an interrogatory under paragraph (a)(B) of this subsection is not
subject to public disclosure. The Secretary of State may provide a law
enforcement agency with the list described in paragraph (a)(A) of this
subsection and information the Secretary of State obtains from an interrogatory
under paragraph (a)(B) of this subsection. 

       (2)(a) If a
limited liability company fails to comply with an order from the Secretary of
State under subsection (1) of this section, the Secretary of State may: 

       (A) Impose a
civil penalty on the limited liability company in accordance with ORS 183.745; 

       (B) Cancel or
revoke an organization, or revoke a foreign limited liability company’s
authorization to transact business in this state, after conducting a hearing
under ORS 183.413 to 183.470; or 

       (C)
Administratively dissolve the limited liability company in accordance with ORS
63.651. 

       (b) The Secretary
of State shall provide in an order that imposes a civil penalty under paragraph
(a)(A) of this subsection that the civil penalty is not due and payable until
after the order becomes final following any appeal of the order or, if an appeal
does not occur, after the order becomes final by operation of law. 

       (3)(a) The
Director of the Department of Revenue may recommend to the Secretary of State
that the Secretary of State administratively dissolve a limited liability
company for a failure to comply with the tax laws of the state, but the
director may not recommend administrative dissolution if the director has
allowed an appeal of the limited liability company’s tax liability or another
action of the Department of Revenue related to the limited liability company’s
failure to comply with the tax laws of the state or if an appeal is pending. If
the Secretary of State agrees with the director, the Secretary of State may
dissolve the limited liability company under ORS 63.651. 

       (b) The Secretary
of State, in consultation with the department, may specify what constitutes a
failure to comply with the tax laws of the state for the purposes set forth in
paragraph (a) of this subsection. 

       (4) The Secretary
of State may not reinstate a limited liability company that was
administratively or judicially dissolved unless, as appropriate: 

       (a) The limited
liability company complies with the Secretary of State’s order under subsection
(1) of this section; 

       (b) A law
enforcement agency that has completed an investigation of the limited liability
company for which the Secretary of State canceled or revoked organization or
revoked an authorization to transact business in this state recommends that the
Secretary of State allow the organization or reinstatement; 

       (c) A court order
compels a reinstatement; or 

       (d) The
Department of Revenue recommends a reinstatement. 

       (5) A limited
liability company may appeal in accordance with ORS 183.480 to 183.500 an order
the Secretary of State issues or an action the Secretary of State takes under
this section. 

       (6) The Secretary
of State and the Director of the Department of Revenue may each adopt rules to
implement the provisions of this section. [2017 c.705 §5] 

   

 (Notice) 

   

       63.034
Knowledge and notice. 
(1) A person knows a fact if the person has actual knowledge of it. 

       (2) A person has
notice of a fact if the person: 

       (a) Knows of it; 

       (b) Has received
a notification of it; or 

       (c) Has reason to
know it exists from all the facts known to the person at the time in question. 

       (3) A person
notifies or gives notification to another by taking steps reasonably required
to inform the other person in the ordinary course, whether or not the other
person learns of it. 

       (4) A person
receives a notification when the notification: 

       (a) Comes to the
person’s attention; or 

       (b) Is addressed
to the person and is duly delivered at the person’s place of business or at any
other place held out by the person as a place for receiving communications. 

       (5) A person
other than an individual knows, has notice or receives a notification of a fact
for purposes of a particular transaction when the individual conducting the
transaction knows, has notice or receives a notification of the fact, or in any
event when the fact would have been brought to the individual’s attention if
the person had exercised reasonable diligence. 

       (6) Written
notice to a domestic limited liability company or to a foreign limited
liability company authorized to transact business in this state may be
addressed to its registered agent at its registered office or to the domestic
or foreign limited liability company or its manager or managers at its
principal office or mailing address as shown in the records of the office. [1993
c.173 §13; 1995 c.79 §17; 1999 c.86 §2] 

   

       63.040 [Repealed by 1959 c.580 §104] 

   

 ORGANIZATION 

   

       63.044
Formation. One or
more individuals 18 years of age or older or other entities may form a limited
liability company by executing and delivering articles of organization to the
office for filing. Organizers need not be members of the limited liability
company. [1993 c.173 §14] 

   

       63.047
Articles of organization. 
(1) Articles of organization must set forth: 

       (a) The name of
the limited liability company, which must satisfy the requirements of ORS
63.094; 

       (b) The address,
including street and number, and mailing address, if different, of the limited
liability company’s initial registered office and the name of the initial
registered agent at the office; 

       (c) A mailing
address to which notices, as required by this chapter, may be mailed until the
limited liability company designates an address in an annual report; 

       (d) If the
limited liability company will be manager-managed, a statement that the limited
liability company will be manager-managed or a statement that the limited
liability company will be managed by a manager or managers; 

       (e) The name and
address of each organizer; 

       (f) The latest
date on which the limited liability company will dissolve or a statement that
the limited liability company’s existence is perpetual; 

       (g) If a limited
liability company will render professional service or services, as defined in
ORS 58.015, the professional service or services that the limited liability
company will render; 

       (h) The initial
physical street address, including the number and name of the street, and the
mailing address, if different, of the limited liability company’s principal
office; and 

       (i) The name and
address of at least one individual who is a member or manager of the limited
liability company or an authorized representative with direct knowledge of the
operations and business activities of the limited liability company. 

       (2) The articles
of organization may set forth any other provisions, not inconsistent with law,
for regulating the internal affairs of the limited liability company, including
any provision that is required or permitted to be included in any operating agreement
of the limited liability company under this chapter. 

       (3) The articles
of organization need not set forth any of the powers enumerated in this
chapter. [1993 c.173 §15; 1997 c.774 §10; 1999 c.86 §3; 2001 c.315 §51; 2017
c.705 §20] 

   

       63.050 [Repealed by 1959 c.580 §104] 

   

       63.051
Organization. (1)
Unless a delayed effective date is specified in the articles of organization,
the limited liability company’s existence begins when the articles of
organization are filed by the Secretary of State. 

       (2) The Secretary
of State’s filing of the articles of organization is conclusive proof that all
conditions precedent to organization were satisfied except in a proceeding by
the state to cancel or revoke the organization or involuntarily dissolve the
limited liability company. [1993 c.173 §16] 

   

       63.054
Liability for preorganization transactions. All persons purporting to act as or on behalf of a
limited liability company, knowing the limited liability company was not then
in existence, are jointly and severally liable for all liabilities created
while so acting. [1993 c.173 §17] 

   

       63.057
Operating agreements. 
The operating agreement, if any, may provide for the regulation and management
of the affairs of the limited liability company in any manner not inconsistent
with law or the articles of organization and may be in writing or oral. [1993
c.173 §18; 1995 c.93 §3] 

   

       63.060 [Repealed by 1959 c.580 §104] 

   

       63.070 [Repealed by 1959 c.580 §104] 

   

 PURPOSES AND POWERS 

   

       63.074
Purposes; prohibition on illegal purposes. (1) Except as otherwise provided by the laws of the
state and in this section, a limited liability company formed under this
chapter may conduct or promote any lawful business or purpose that a
partnership, corporation or professional corporation as defined in ORS 58.015
may conduct or promote, unless the articles of organization set forth a more
limited purpose. A person may not organize a limited liability company under
this chapter for any illegal purpose or with an intent to fraudulently conceal
any business activity from another person or a governmental agency. 

       (2) Subject to
the laws of the state, the rules and regulations of a regulatory board of a
profession, if any, and the standards of professional conduct of the
profession, if any, a limited liability company or members of the limited
liability company may render professional service in this state.
Notwithstanding any other law, members of a limited liability company,
including members who are managers, and who are also professionals, as defined
in ORS 58.015, are personally liable as members of the limited liability
company to the same extent and in the same manner as provided for shareholders
of a professional corporation in ORS 58.185 and 58.187 and as otherwise
provided in this chapter. 

       (3) A business
that is subject to regulation under another statute of the state may not be
organized under this chapter if the business is required to be organized only
under the other statute. [1993 c.173 §19; 1995 c.93 §4; 1995 c.327 §4a; 1997
c.774 §11; 2017 c.705 §21] 

   

       63.077 General
powers. (1) Unless
its articles of organization provide otherwise, the duration of a limited
liability company shall be perpetual. 

       (2) Unless its
articles of organization provide otherwise, and subject to the provisions of
ORS 63.074 (2), each limited liability company organized under this chapter
may: 

       (a) Sue and be
sued, and complain and defend in all courts in its own name; 

       (b) Purchase,
take, receive, lease, or otherwise acquire, own, hold, improve, use and
otherwise deal in or with real or personal property or any interest in real or
personal property, wherever situated; 

       (c) Sell, convey,
mortgage, pledge, create a security interest in, lease, exchange or transfer,
and otherwise dispose of all or any part of its property or assets; 

       (d) Purchase,
take, receive, subscribe for or otherwise acquire, own, hold, vote, use,
employ, sell, mortgage, lend, pledge, otherwise dispose of, and otherwise use
or deal in or with other interests in or obligations of any other entity; 

       (e) Make
contracts or guarantees, incur liabilities, borrow money, issue its notes or
other obligations that may be convertible into other securities of the limited
liability company or include the option to purchase other securities of the
limited liability company, or secure any of its obligations by mortgage or
pledge of any of its property, franchises or income; 

       (f) Lend money,
invest or reinvest its funds, or receive and hold real or personal property as
security for repayment of funds so loaned, invested or reinvested; 

       (g) Be a
promoter, incorporator, general partner, limited partner, member, associate or
manager of any partnership, joint venture, trust or other entity; 

       (h) Conduct its
business, locate offices and exercise the powers granted by this chapter within
or without this state; 

       (i) Elect or
appoint managers, employees or agents of the limited liability company, define
their duties, fix their compensation and lend them money and credit; 

       (j) Make and
alter an operating agreement, not inconsistent with its articles of
organization or with the laws of this state, for managing its business and
regulating its affairs; 

       (k) Pay pensions
and establish pension plans, profit-sharing plans, and benefit or incentive
plans for any or all of its current or former managers, members, employees and
agents; 

       (L) Make
donations for the public welfare or for charitable, scientific or educational
purposes; 

       (m) Transact any
lawful business that will aid governmental policy; 

       (n) Indemnify a
member or manager or any other person as and to the extent not inconsistent
with the provisions of this chapter; 

       (o) Cease its
activities and dissolve; and 

       (p) Have and
exercise all powers and do every other act not inconsistent with law which is
necessary or convenient to promote and effect any or all of the purposes for
which the limited liability company is organized. [1993 c.173 §20; 1997 c.646 §2] 

   

 NAME 

   

       63.094 Limited
liability company name. 
(1) The name of a limited liability company must contain the words “limited
liability company” or the abbreviation “L.L.C.” or “LLC.” 

       (2) A limited
liability company name may not contain the word or abbreviation “cooperative,” “corporation,”
“corp.,” “incorporated,” “Inc.,” “limited partnership,” “L.P.,” “LP,” “Ltd.,” “limited
liability partnership,” “L.L.P.” or “LLP” or any derivation of any of the words
or abbreviations specified in this subsection. 

       (3) A limited
liability company name must be written in the alphabet used to write the
English language and may include Arabic and Roman numerals and incidental
punctuation. 

       (4) A limited
liability company name must be distinguishable upon the records of the Office
of the Secretary of State from any other limited liability company name,
corporate name, professional corporate name, nonprofit corporate name,
cooperative name, limited partnership name, business trust name, reserved name,
registered corporate name or assumed business name of active record with the
office. 

       (5) The limited
liability company name need not satisfy the requirement of subsection (4) of
this section if the applicant delivers to the office a certified copy of a
final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction that finds that the
applicant has a prior or concurrent right to use the limited liability company
name in this state. 

       (6) The provisions
of this section do not prohibit a limited liability company from transacting
business under an assumed business name. 

       (7) The
provisions of this section do not: 

       (a) Abrogate or
limit the law governing unfair competition or unfair trade practices; or 

       (b) Derogate from
the common law, the principles of equity or the statutes of this state or of
the United States with respect to the right to acquire and protect trade names.
[1993 c.173 §21; 1995 c.93 §5; 2013 c.159 §8] 

   

       63.097
Reserved name. (1)
A person may apply to the office to reserve a limited liability company name.
The application must set forth the name and address of the applicant and the
name proposed to be reserved. 

       (2) If the
Secretary of State finds that the limited liability company name applied for
conforms to ORS 63.094, the Secretary of State shall reserve the name for the
applicant for a 120-day period. 

       (3) A person may
transfer the reservation of a limited liability company name to another person
by delivering to the office a notice of the transfer executed by the person for
whom the name was reserved and specifying the name and address of the transferee.
[1993 c.173 §22] 

   

       63.101
Registered name. 
(1) A foreign limited liability company may apply to the office to register its
name. 

       (2) The
application must set forth the limited liability company name, the state or
country of its organization, the date of its organization and a brief
description of the nature of the business in which it is engaged and a
statement that it is not carrying on or doing business in the State of Oregon.
The application must be accompanied by a certificate of existence or a document
of similar import current within 60 days of delivery, duly authenticated by the
official having custody of the limited liability company records in the state
or country under whose law it is organized. 

       (3) If the
Secretary of State finds that the name conforms to ORS 63.094, the Secretary of
State shall register the name effective for one year. [1993 c.173 §23] 

   

       63.110 [Repealed by 1959 c.580 §104] 

   

 OFFICE AND AGENT 

   

       63.111
Registered office and registered agent. (1) A limited liability company shall continuously
maintain in this state a registered agent and registered office that may be,
but need not be, the same as any of the limited liability company’s places of
business. The registered office must be located at a physical street address
where process may be personally served on the registered agent. The registered
office may not be a commercial mail receiving agency, a mail forwarding
business or a virtual office. 

       (2) A registered
agent must be: 

       (a) An individual
who resides in this state and whose business office is identical to the
registered office; 

       (b) A domestic
limited liability company, a domestic corporation, a domestic professional
corporation or a domestic nonprofit corporation, the business office of which
is identical to the registered office; or 

       (c) A foreign
limited liability company, foreign corporation, foreign professional
corporation or foreign nonprofit corporation that is authorized to transact
business in this state, the business office of which is identical to the
registered office. [1993 c.173 §24; 2001 c.315 §27; 2013 c.158 §25; 2017 c.705 §22] 

   

       63.114 Change
of registered office or registered agent. (1) A limited liability company may change its
registered office or registered agent by delivering to the office of the
Secretary of State for filing a statement of change that sets forth: 

       (a) The name of
the limited liability company; 

       (b) If the
registered office is to be changed, the address including street and number of
the new registered office; 

       (c) If the
registered agent is to be changed, the name of the new registered agent and
that the new agent has consented to the appointment; and 

       (d) That after
the change or changes are made, the street addresses of its registered office
and the business office of its registered agent will be identical. 

       (2) If a
registered agent changes the street address of the agent’s business office, the
registered agent shall change the street address of the registered office of
the limited liability company for which the agent is the registered agent by
notifying the limited liability company in writing of the change and signing,
either manually or in facsimile, and delivering to the office of the Secretary
of State a statement that complies with the requirements of subsection (1) of
this section and recites that the limited liability company has been notified
of the change. 

       (3) The filing of
the statement by the Secretary of State shall terminate the existing registered
office or agent, or both, on the effective date of the filing and establish the
newly appointed registered office or agent, or both, as that of the limited liability
company. [1993 c.173 §25] 

   

       63.117
Resignation of registered agent. 
(1) A registered agent may resign as agent upon delivering a signed statement
to the office and giving notice in the form of a copy of the statement to the
limited liability company. The statement may include a statement that the
registered office is also discontinued. 

       (2) Upon delivery
of the signed statement, the Secretary of State shall file the resignation
statement. The copy of the statement given to the limited liability company
under subsection (1) of this section shall be addressed to the limited
liability company at its mailing address or its principal office as shown by
the records of the office of the Secretary of State. 

       (3) The agency
appointment is terminated and the registered office discontinued, if so
provided, on the 31st day after the date on which the statement was filed by
the Secretary of State, unless the limited liability company shall sooner
appoint a successor registered agent as provided in ORS 63.114 thereby
terminating the capacity of such agent. [1993 c.173 §26; 1993 c.173 §105] 

   

       63.121 Service
on limited liability company. 
(1) The registered agent appointed by a limited liability company shall be an
agent of the limited liability company upon whom any process, notice or demand
required or permitted by law to be served upon the limited liability company
may be served. 

       (2) The Secretary
of State shall be an agent of a limited liability company including a dissolved
limited liability company upon whom any such process, notice or demand may be
served whenever the limited liability company fails to appoint or maintain a registered
agent in this state or whenever the limited liability company’s registered
agent cannot with reasonable diligence be found at the registered office. 

       (3) Service shall
be made on the Secretary of State by: 

       (a) Serving on
the Secretary of State or a clerk on duty at the office a copy of the process,
notice or demand, with any papers required by law to be delivered in connection
with the service, and the required fee for each party being served or by
mailing to the office a copy of the process, notice or demand and the required
fee for each party being served by certified or registered mail. 

       (b) Transmittal
by the person instituting the proceedings of notice of the service on the
Secretary of State and copy of the process, notice or demand and accompanying
papers to the limited liability company being served by certified or registered
mail: 

       (A) At the last
registered office of the limited liability company as shown by the records on
file in the office of the Secretary of State; and 

       (B) At such
address of the use of which the person initiating the proceedings knows or, on
the basis of reasonable inquiry, has reason to believe is most likely to result
in actual notice. 

       (c) Filing with
the appropriate court or other body, as part of the return of service, the
return receipt of mailing and an affidavit of the person initiating the
proceedings stating that this section has been complied with. 

       (4) The Secretary
of State shall keep a record of all processes, notices and demands served upon
the Secretary of State under this section. 

       (5) After
completion of initial service upon the Secretary of State, no additional
documents need be served upon the Secretary of State to maintain jurisdiction
in the same proceeding or to give notice of any motion or provisional process. 

       (6) Nothing
contained in this section shall limit or affect the right to serve any process,
notice or demand required or permitted by law to be served upon a limited
liability company in any other manner now or hereafter permitted by law, or
enlarge the purposes for which service on the Secretary of State is permitted
where such purposes are limited by other provisions of law. [1993 c.173 §27] 

   

 MANAGEMENT AND
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS OF MEMBERS 

   

       63.130 Rights
of members and managers; matters requiring consent of all or majority of
members. (1) In a
member-managed limited liability company, unless otherwise provided in the
articles of organization or any operating agreement: 

       (a) Each member
has equal rights in the management and conduct of the limited liability company’s
business; and 

       (b) Except as
otherwise provided in subsection (3) of this section, any matter relating to
the business of the limited liability company may be decided by a majority of
the members. 

       (2) In a
manager-managed limited liability company, unless otherwise provided in the
articles of organization or any operating agreement: 

       (a) Each manager
has equal rights in the management and conduct of the limited liability company’s
business; 

       (b) Except as
otherwise provided in subsections (3) and (4) of this section, any matter
relating to the business of the limited liability company may be exclusively
decided by the manager or, if there is more than one manager, by a majority of
the managers; and 

       (c) A manager: 

       (A) Must be
designated, appointed, elected, removed or replaced by a vote, approval or
consent of a majority of the members; and 

       (B) Holds office
until a successor has been elected and qualified, unless the manager sooner
resigns or is removed. 

       (3) Unless
otherwise provided in the articles of organization or any operating agreement,
the following matters of a member-managed or a manager-managed limited
liability company require the consent of all of the members: 

       (a) The amendment
of the operating agreement or the articles of organization under ORS 63.444; 

       (b) The
compromise, as among the members, of an obligation to make a contribution under
ORS 63.180 (4) or to return money or other property paid or distributed in
violation of any provision of this chapter; and 

       (c) The consent
to dissolve the limited liability company under ORS 63.621 (3). 

       (4) Unless
otherwise provided in the articles of organization or any operating agreement,
the following matters of a member-managed or a manager-managed limited
liability company require the consent of a majority of the members: 

       (a) The making of
interim distributions under ORS 63.200, including the redemption of an
interest; 

       (b) The admission
of a new member; 

       (c) The use of
the limited liability company’s property to redeem an interest subject to a
charging order; 

       (d) The sale,
lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge or other transfer or disposition of all, or
substantially all, of the limited liability company’s property, with or without
goodwill; 

       (e) The merger of
the limited liability company with any other entity; 

       (f) The
conversion of the limited liability company into any other type of entity; 

       (g) The incurring
of indebtedness by the limited liability company other than in the ordinary
course of the business of the limited liability company; 

       (h) A transaction
involving an actual or a potential conflict of interest between a member or a
manager and the limited liability company; 

       (i) A change in
the nature of the limited liability company’s business; and 

       (j) Any other
matter specified in the articles of organization or any operating agreement as
requiring member approval if no number or percentage of members is otherwise
stated. 

       (5) Unless
otherwise provided in the articles of organization or any operating agreement,
action requiring the consent of members or managers under this chapter may be
taken without a meeting. 

       (6) Unless
otherwise provided in the articles of organization or any operating agreement,
a member or manager may appoint a proxy to vote or otherwise act for the member
or manager by signing an appointment instrument, either personally or by the
member’s or manager’s attorney-in-fact. 

       (7) Unless the
context clearly requires otherwise, references in this chapter to managers
apply both to managers of a manager-managed limited liability company and to
members of a member-managed limited liability company. [1993 c.173 §28; 1999
c.86 §4] 

   

       63.135 [1993 c.173 §29; repealed by 1999
c.86 §23] 

   

       63.140 Agency
power of managers and members; interest in real property. (1) Subject to subsections (2) and
(3) of this section: 

       (a) Each member
is an agent of the limited liability company for the purpose of its business,
and an act of a member, including the signing of an instrument in the limited
liability company’s name, for apparently carrying on in the ordinary course the
business of the limited liability company, or business of the kind carried on
by the limited liability company, binds the limited liability company unless
the member had no authority to act for the limited liability company in the
particular matter and the person with whom the member was dealing knew or had
notice that the member lacked authority. 

       (b) An act of a
member that is not apparently for carrying on in the ordinary course the
business of the limited liability company, or business of the kind carried on
by the limited liability company, binds the limited liability company only if
the act was authorized by the other members. 

       (2) Subject to
subsection (3) of this section, in a manager-managed limited liability company: 

       (a) A member is
not an agent of the limited liability company for the purpose of its business
solely by reason of being a member. Each manager is an agent of the limited
liability company for the purpose of its business, and an act of a manager,
including the signing of an instrument in the limited liability company’s name,
for apparently carrying on in the ordinary course the business of the limited
liability company, or business of the kind carried on by the limited liability
company, binds the limited liability company unless the manager had no
authority to act for the limited liability company in the particular matter and
the person with whom the manager was dealing knew or had notice that the
manager lacked authority. 

       (b) An act of a
manager that is not apparently for carrying on in the ordinary course the
business of the limited liability company, or business of the kind carried on
by the limited liability company, binds the limited liability company only if
the act was authorized under ORS 63.130. 

       (3) Unless the
articles of organization limit their authority, any member of a member-managed
limited liability company or manager of a manager-managed limited liability
company may sign and deliver any instrument transferring or affecting the
limited liability company’s interest in real property. The instrument is
conclusive in favor of a person who gives value without knowledge of the lack
of the authority of the person signing and delivering the instrument. [1993
c.173 §30; 1999 c.86 §5] 

   

       63.145 [1993 c.173 §31; repealed by 1999
c.86 §23] 

   

       63.150 [1993 c.173 §32; 1995 c.93 §6;
repealed by 1999 c.86 §23] 

   

       63.155 Duties
and standard of conduct. 
(1) The only fiduciary duties a member owes to a member-managed limited
liability company and its other members are the duty of loyalty and the duty of
care set forth in subsections (2) and (3) of this section. 

       (2) A member’s
duty of loyalty to a member-managed limited liability company and its other
members includes the following: 

       (a) To account to
the limited liability company and hold for it any property, profit or benefit
derived by the member in the conduct and winding up of the limited liability
company’s business or derived from a use by the member of limited liability
company property, including the appropriation of a limited liability company
opportunity; 

       (b) Except as
provided in subsections (5) and (6) of this section, to refrain from dealing
with the limited liability company in a manner adverse to the limited liability
company and to refrain from representing a person with an interest adverse to
the limited liability company, in the conduct or winding up of the limited
liability company’s business; and 

       (c) To refrain
from competing with the limited liability company in the conduct of the
business of the limited liability company before the dissolution of the limited
liability company. 

       (3) A member’s
duty of care to a member-managed limited liability company and the other
members in the conduct and winding up of the business of the limited liability
company is limited to refraining from engaging in grossly negligent or reckless
conduct, intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law. 

       (4) A member
shall discharge the duties to a member-managed limited liability company and
the other members under this chapter or under any operating agreement of the
limited liability company and exercise any rights consistent with the
obligation of good faith and fair dealing. 

       (5) A member of a
member-managed limited liability company does not violate a duty or obligation
under this chapter or under any operating agreement of the limited liability
company merely because the member’s conduct furthers the member’s own interest. 

       (6) A member of a
member-managed limited liability company may lend money to or transact other
business with the limited liability company, provided that any loan or
transaction between the member and the limited liability company must be: 

       (a) Fair to the
limited liability company; 

       (b) Authorized by
an operating agreement; or 

       (c) Authorized or
ratified by a majority of the disinterested members or by a number or
percentage of members specified in the operating agreement after full
disclosure of all material facts. 

       (7) Loans and
other transactions between a member-managed limited liability company and a
member are binding on the parties in the same manner as transactions between
the limited liability company and persons who are not members, subject to other
applicable law. 

       (8) This section
also applies to a person who is not a member and who is winding up the limited
liability company’s business. 

       (9) In a
manager-managed limited liability company: 

       (a) A member who
is not also a manager owes no duties to the limited liability company or the
other members solely by reason of being a member; 

       (b) A manager is
held to the same standards of conduct prescribed for members in subsections (2)
to (8) of this section; 

       (c) A member who,
pursuant to an operating agreement, exercises some or all of the rights of a
manager in the management and conduct of the limited liability company’s
business is held to the standards of conduct described in subsections (2) to
(8) of this section to the extent that the member exercises the managerial
authority vested in a manager by this chapter; and 

       (d) A manager is
relieved of liability imposed by law for violation of the standards prescribed
by this section to the extent, if any, of the managerial authority delegated to
the members who are not also managers by an operating agreement. 

       (10) The articles
of organization or an operating agreement of a limited liability company may
not: 

       (a) Eliminate
completely the duty of loyalty under subsection (2) of this section, but the
articles of organization or an operating agreement may: 

       (A) Identify
specific types or categories of activities that do not violate the duty of
loyalty, if not unconscionable; and 

       (B) Specify the
number or percentage of members, whether interested or disinterested, or
disinterested managers that may authorize or ratify, after full disclosure of
all material facts, a specific act or transaction that otherwise would violate
the duty of loyalty. 

       (b) Unreasonably
reduce the duty of care under subsection (3) of this section. 

       (c) Eliminate
completely the obligation of good faith and fair dealing under subsection (4)
of this section, but the articles of organization or an operating agreement may
determine the standards by which performance of the obligation of good faith
and fair dealing is to be measured, if the standards are not unconscionable. 

       (11) For the
purposes of subsection (10)(a) of this section, specific types or categories of
activities that may be identified as not violating the duty of loyalty include,
but are not limited to: 

       (a) Competing
with the limited liability company in the conduct of the business of the
limited liability company before the dissolution of the limited liability
company; and 

       (b) Entering into
or engaging in, for a member’s own account, an investment, business,
transaction or activity that is similar to the investments, businesses,
transactions or activities of the limited liability company without: 

       (A) First
offering the limited liability company or the other members an opportunity to
participate in the investment, business, transaction or activity; or 

       (B) Having any
obligation to account to the limited liability company or the other members for
the investment, business, transaction or activity or the profits from the
investment, business, transaction or activity. [1993 c.173 §33; 1999 c.86 §8;
2001 c.315 §23] 

   

       63.160
Limitation of liability and indemnification. The articles of organization or any operating
agreement may provide for indemnification of any person for acts or omissions
as a member, manager, employee or agent and may eliminate or limit the
liability of a member, manager, employee or agent to the limited liability
company or its members for damages from such acts or omissions. However, no
such provision shall eliminate or limit the liability or provide for
indemnification of a member of a member-managed limited liability company or a
manager of a manager-managed limited liability company for any act or omission
occurring prior to the date when such provision became effective, and no such
provision shall eliminate or limit the liability or provide for indemnification
of a member or manager for: 

       (1) Any breach of
the member’s or manager’s duty of loyalty to the limited liability company or
its members; 

       (2) Acts or
omissions not in good faith which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing
violation of law; 

       (3) Any unlawful
distribution under ORS 63.235; or 

       (4) Any
transaction from which the member or manager derives an improper personal
benefit. [1993 c.173 §34; 1995 c.93 §7; 1997 c.646 §16; 1999 c.86 §9] 

   

       63.165
Liability of members and managers. 
(1) The debts, obligations and liabilities of a limited liability company,
whether arising in contract, tort or otherwise, are solely the debts,
obligations and liabilities of the limited liability company. A member or
manager is not personally liable for a debt, obligation or liability of the
limited liability company solely by reason of being or acting as a member or
manager. 

       (2) The failure
of a limited liability company to observe the usual limited liability company
formalities or requirements relating to the exercise of its limited liability
company powers or management of its business is not a ground for imposing
personal liability on the members or managers for liabilities of the limited
liability company. [1993 c.173 §35; 1999 c.86 §10] 

   

       63.170
Liability of limited liability company for acts, omissions or conduct of member
or manager. A
limited liability company is liable for loss or injury caused to a person, or
for a penalty incurred, as a result of a wrongful act or omission, or other
actionable conduct, of a member or manager acting in the ordinary course of the
business of the limited liability company or with authority of the limited
liability company. [1999 c.86 §7] 

   

 FINANCES 

   

       63.175
Contributions. The
contributions of a member to the limited liability company may consist of cash,
property, services rendered, a promissory note or other obligation to
contribute cash or property or to perform services. [1993 c.173 §36] 

   

       63.180
Liability for contributions. 
(1) A promise by a member to contribute to the limited liability company is not
enforceable unless it is set out in writing and signed by the member. 

       (2) Except as
provided in the articles of organization or any operating agreement, a member
is obligated to the limited liability company to perform any enforceable
promise to contribute cash or property or to perform services, even if the
member is unable to perform because of death, disability or any other reason. 

       (3) If a member
does not make a required contribution of property or services, the member is
obligated, at the option of the limited liability company, to contribute cash
equal to the portion of the value of the contribution, as stated in the limited
liability company records required to be kept pursuant to ORS 63.771, that has
not been made. 

       (4) Unless
otherwise provided in the articles of organization or any operating agreement,
the obligation of a member to make a contribution may be compromised only by
consent of all members. Notwithstanding the compromise, a creditor of the
limited liability company may enforce the original obligation if the creditor
acted in reliance on that obligation before the amendment or cancellation of
the obligation to reflect the compromise. [1993 c.173 §37] 

   

       63.185
Allocation of profits and losses. 
(1) The profits and losses of a limited liability company shall be allocated
among the members, and among classes of members, in the manner provided in the
articles of organization or any operating agreement. 

       (2) If neither
the articles of organization nor any operating agreement provides for an
allocation of profits and losses, then profits and losses shall be allocated
among all the members equally. 

       (3) If profits,
but not losses, are allocated in the articles of organization or any operating
agreement, then losses shall be deemed allocated in the same proportion as
profits. If losses, but not profits, are allocated in the articles of
organization or any operating agreement, then profits shall be deemed allocated
in the same proportion as losses. 

       (4) Except as
otherwise provided in the articles of organization or any operating agreement,
if after formation of the limited liability company a member is admitted to the
limited liability company as described in ORS 63.245 (2)(a), then the profits
and losses of the limited liability company shall be allocated among the
members as follows: 

       (a) Profits and
losses that would have been realized on the date of admission of the additional
member if all the assets of the limited liability company were then sold at
their fair value shall be allocated among only the members of the limited
liability company who are members immediately prior to the new member’s
admission based on the respective shares of profits and losses of such
preexisting members before such admission. Thereafter the amount of profits or
losses so allocated shall be treated as an adjustment to the contributions made
by the preexisting members to the limited liability company; except that if the
provisions of this subsection have been applied previously by the limited
liability company in connection with the admission of a new member, the profits
and losses allocated pursuant to this subsection shall be only those profits
and losses realized since the most recent admittance of a new member; and 

       (b) Profits and
losses realized by the limited liability company subsequent to the date of
admission of the additional member shall be allocated among all the members,
including the additional member, based on the respective shares of profits and
losses of all the members after such admission. [1993 c.173 §38; 1995 c.93 §8] 

   

 DISTRIBUTIONS AND
WITHDRAWAL 

   

       63.195
Allocation of interim distributions. 
Distributions of cash or other assets of a limited liability company before the
dissolution and winding up of the limited liability company shall be allocated
among the members, and among classes of members, in the manner provided in the
articles of organization or any operating agreement. If neither the articles of
organization nor any operating agreement provides for such allocations, such
distributions shall be allocated among the members in proportion to their right
to share in the profits of the limited liability company. [1993 c.173 §39] 

   

       63.200 Right
to interim distributions. 
Except as provided in ORS 63.205 to 63.235, a member is entitled to receive
distributions from a limited liability company before the member’s withdrawal
from the limited liability company and before the dissolution and winding up of
the limited liability company to the extent and at the times or upon the
occurrence of the events specified in the articles of organization or any
operating agreement. [1993 c.173 §40] 

   

       63.205
Voluntary withdrawal of member. 
(1) A member may voluntarily withdraw from a limited liability company: 

       (a) At the time
or upon the occurrence of events specified in the articles of organization or
any operating agreement; or 

       (b) Upon not less
than six months’ prior written notice to the limited liability company, unless
the articles of organization or any operating agreement expressly provide that
a member has no power to withdraw voluntarily from the limited liability
company or otherwise expressly limit or condition such power. 

       (2) If a member
with the power to withdraw voluntarily from a limited liability company
exercises that power, but the withdrawal is in breach of any provision of the
articles of organization or any operating agreement, then, unless otherwise
provided in the articles of organization or any operating agreement, the
limited liability company, in addition to any other remedy available at law or
in equity, may recover from the withdrawing member damages incurred by the
limited liability company as a result of the breach and may offset the damages
against any amounts otherwise distributable or payable to the withdrawing
member. 

       (3) Unless
otherwise provided in the articles of organization or any operating agreement,
in the case of a limited liability company for a definite term or particular
undertaking, a voluntary withdrawal by a member before the expiration of that
term or completion of that undertaking is a breach of the applicable articles
of organization or any operating agreement. [1993 c.173 §41; 1995 c.93 §9; 1997
c.646 §3] 

   

       63.209
Expulsion of member. 
(1) A member may be expelled from a limited liability company: 

       (a) In accordance
with a written provision in the articles of organization or any operating
agreement; or 

       (b) Except as
otherwise provided in writing in the articles of organization or any operating
agreement, by a court, upon application of any member, if the court determines
that: 

       (A) The member
has been guilty of wrongful conduct that adversely and materially affects the
business or affairs of the limited liability company; or 

       (B) The member
has willfully or persistently committed a material breach of the articles of
organization or any operating agreement or otherwise breached a duty owed to
the limited liability company or the other members to the extent that it is not
reasonably practicable to carry on the business or affairs of the limited
liability company with that member. 

       (2) The power of
a limited liability company to expel a member pursuant to this section does not
limit or adversely affect any right or power of the limited liability company
to recover any damages or to pursue any other remedies provided for in the articles
of organization or any operating agreement or permitted under applicable law or
at equity. The limited liability company, in addition to any of its other
remedies, may offset any such damages against any amounts otherwise
distributable or payable to the expelled member. [1993 c.173 §42; 1995 c.93 §10] 

   

       63.210 [1959 c.660 §1; repealed by 1981
c.68 §1] 

   

       63.215 [1993 c.173 §43; 1995 c.93 §11;
repealed by 1997 c.646 §18] 

   

       63.219
Distribution in kind. 
Except as provided in the articles of organization or any operating agreement: 

       (1) No member,
regardless of the nature of the member’s contribution, has any right to demand
and receive any distribution from a limited liability company in any form other
than cash; and 

       (2) No member may
be compelled to accept a distribution of any asset in kind from a limited
liability company to the extent that the percentage of the asset distributed to
the member exceeds a percentage of that asset that is equal to the percentage
in which the member shares in operating or liquidating distributions, as the
case may be, from the limited liability company. [1993 c.173 §44] 

   

       63.220 [1959 c.660 §2; repealed by 1981
c.68 §1] 

   

       63.225 Right
to distribution. 
When a member becomes entitled to receive a distribution, the member has the
status of and is entitled to all remedies available to a creditor of the
limited liability company with respect to the distribution. [1993 c.173 §45] 

   

       63.229
Limitations on distribution. 
(1) A distribution may be made by a limited liability company to any member
only if, after giving effect to the distribution, in the judgment of the
members, for a member-managed limited liability company, or the managers, for a
manager-managed limited liability company: 

       (a) The limited
liability company would be able to pay its debts as they become due in the
ordinary course of business; and 

       (b) The fair
value of the total assets of the limited liability company would at least equal
the sum of: 

       (A) Its total
liabilities; plus 

       (B) Unless the
articles of organization permit otherwise, the amount that would be needed, if
the limited liability company were to be dissolved at the time of the
distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution, if any, of
other members that are superior to the rights of the members receiving the
distribution. 

       (2) The members
or managers of a limited liability company may base a determination that a
distribution is not prohibited under subsection (1) of this section either on: 

       (a) Financial
statements that the members or managers reasonably believe have been prepared
on the basis of accounting practices and principles that are reasonable in the
circumstances; or 

       (b) A fair
valuation or other method that the members or managers reasonably believe is
reasonable in the circumstances. 

       (3) For purposes
of this section, the amount, if any, by which a liability as to which the
recourse of creditors is limited to specific property of the limited liability
company exceeds the fair value of such specific property shall be disregarded
as a liability of the limited liability company. 

       (4) The effect of
a distribution under subsection (1) of this section is measured for purposes of
this section: 

       (a) In the case
of distribution by purchase, retirement or other acquisition of all or a
portion of a member’s interest in the limited liability company, as of the
earlier of the date the money or other property is transferred or debt incurred
by the limited liability company or the date the member ceases to be a member
with respect to the membership interest purchased, retired or otherwise
acquired; 

       (b) In the case
of any other distribution of indebtedness, as of the date the indebtedness is
distributed; and 

       (c) In all other
cases, as of the date a distribution is authorized if the payment occurs within
120 days after the date of authorization or the date the payment is made if it
occurs more than 120 days after the date of authorization. 

       (5) A limited
liability company’s indebtedness to a member incurred by reason of a
distribution made in accordance with this section is at parity with the limited
liability company’s indebtedness to its general unsecured creditors, unless the
member agrees to subordination or the limited liability company grants the
member a security interest or other lien against limited liability company
assets to secure the indebtedness. [1993 c.173 §46; 1999 c.86 §11] 

   

       63.230 [1959 c.660 §3; repealed by 1981
c.68 §1] 

   

       63.235
Liability for wrongful distribution. 
(1) A member of a member-managed limited liability company or a member or
manager of a manager-managed company who votes for or assents to a distribution
made in violation of ORS 63.229, the articles of organization or any operating
agreement, is personally liable to the limited liability company for the amount
of the distribution that exceeds the amount that could have been distributed
without violating ORS 63.229, the articles of organization or any operating
agreement, if it is established that the member or manager did not perform the
member’s or manager’s duties in compliance with ORS 63.155. 

       (2) A member of a
manager-managed limited liability company who receives a distribution knowing
that it was made in violation of ORS 63.229 is personally liable to the limited
liability company, but only to the extent that the distribution received by the
member exceeded the amount that could have been properly paid under ORS 63.229. 

       (3) A member or
manager against whom an action is brought under subsection (1) of this section
may implead in the action all: 

       (a) Other members
or managers who voted for or assented to the distribution in violation of
subsection (1) of this section and may compel contribution from them; and 

       (b) Members who
received a distribution in violation of subsection (2) of this section and may
compel contribution from them in the amount received in violation of subsection
(2) of this section. 

       (4) A proceeding
under this section is barred unless it is commenced within two years after the
distribution. [1993 c.173 §47; 1995 c.93 §12; 1999 c.86 §12] 

   

 MEMBERSHIP INTEREST 

   

       63.239 Nature
of membership interest. 
A membership interest is personal property. A member is not a co-owner of and
has no interest in specific limited liability company property. [1993 c.173 §48] 

   

       63.240 [1959 c.660 §4; repealed by 1981
c.68 §1] 

   

       63.245
Admission of members. 
(1) A person becomes a member of a limited liability company on the later of: 

       (a) The date the
initial articles of organization are filed; or 

       (b) The date
stated in the records of the limited liability company as the date the person
becomes a member. 

       (2) After the
filing of the limited liability company’s initial articles of organization, a
person may be admitted as a member of the limited liability company upon
compliance with the articles of organization or any operating agreement, or, if
neither the articles of organization nor any operating agreement so provide: 

       (a) In the case
of a person acquiring a membership interest directly from the limited liability
company, upon the consent of a majority of the members; 

       (b) In the case
of an assignee of a limited liability company membership interest not governed
by paragraph (c) of this section, upon the consent of a majority of the members
other than the assignor; or 

       (c) In the case
of an assignee of a membership interest in a limited liability company in
which, immediately following the assignment, the limited liability company
otherwise would have no members, simultaneously with and upon the assignment of
the membership interest. [1993 c.173 §49; 1995 c.93 §13; 1997 c.646 §4] 

   

       63.249
Assignment of membership interest; effect of assignment. Except as provided in the articles
of organization or any operating agreement: 

       (1) A membership
interest is assignable in whole or in part. 

       (2) An assignment
of a membership interest does not itself dissolve the limited liability
company. 

       (3) Until the
assignee of a membership interest becomes a member with respect to the
interest, the assignee shall have the assignor’s right to receive and retain,
to the extent assigned, the distributions, as and when made, and allocations of
profits and losses to which the assignor would be entitled, but shall not
exercise any other rights of a member, including without limitation the right
to vote or otherwise participate in the management and affairs of the limited
liability company. 

       (4) Except as
otherwise provided in ORS 63.229 and 63.235, until the assignee of a membership
interest becomes a member, the assignee has no liability, duty or obligation as
a member solely as a result of the assignment. 

       (5) The assignor
of all or a portion of a membership interest ceases to be a member with respect
to the interest assigned, but is not released from liability as a member
accruing or arising prior to assignment solely as a result of the assignment,
and is not relieved of any fiduciary duties the assignor otherwise may continue
to owe the limited liability company or its remaining members. 

       (6) Any otherwise
permissible assignment of a membership interest shall be effective as to and
binding on the limited liability company only after reasonable notice of and
proof of the assignment have been provided to the managers of the limited
liability company. 

       (7) The pledge
of, or granting of a security interest, lien, or other encumbrance in or
against all or any portion of the membership interest of a member is not an
assignment of the member’s interest. [1993 c.173 §50; 1997 c.646 §5] 

   

       63.250 [1959 c.660 §5; repealed by 1981
c.68 §1] 

   

       63.255 Rights
of assignee who becomes member. 
(1) An assignee who becomes a member as to the assigned interest has the rights
and powers, and is subject to the restrictions and liabilities, of a member
under this chapter, the articles of organization and any operating agreement.
An assignee who becomes a member also is liable for any obligations of the
assignee’s assignor to make contributions under ORS 63.180. However, the
assignee is not obligated merely by becoming a member for any other liabilities
for which the assignor was liable that were unknown to the assignee at the time
the assignee became a member and that could not be ascertained from the
articles of organization. 

       (2) Whether or
not an assignee of a membership interest becomes a member, the assignor is not
released from the assignor’s liability to the limited liability company to make
contributions under ORS 63.180. [1993 c.173 §51; 1995 c.93 §14; 1997 c.646 §6] 

   

       63.259 Rights
of judgment creditor against member. 
On application to a court of competent jurisdiction by any judgment creditor of
a member, the court may charge the membership interest of the member with
payment of the unsatisfied amount of the judgment with interest. To the extent
so charged, the judgment creditor has only the rights of an assignee of the
membership interest. This chapter shall not deprive any member of the benefit
of any exemption laws applicable to the member’s membership interest. [1993
c.173 §52] 

   

       63.260 [1959 c.660 §6; repealed by 1981
c.68 §1] 

   

       63.265
Cessation of membership. 
Except as otherwise provided in the articles of organization or any operating
agreement: 

       (1) A member
shall cease to be a member in a limited liability company upon the member’s
death, incompetency, bankruptcy, dissolution, withdrawal, expulsion or
assignment of the member’s entire membership interest. 

       (2)(a) Except as
otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection, following the cessation
of the member’s interest, the holder of the former member’s interest shall be
considered an assignee of such interest and shall have all the rights, duties
and obligations of an assignee under this chapter. 

       (b) If the member
who ceases to be a member is the only member of the limited liability company,
the holder of the former member’s interest shall become a member simultaneously
with and upon the cessation of the former member’s interest. [1993 c.173 §53;
1995 c.93 §15; 1997 c.646 §7] 

   

       63.270 [1959 c.660 §8; repealed by 1981
c.68 §1] 

   

       63.280 [1959 c.660 §7; 1967 c.359 §675;
repealed by 1981 c.68 §1] 

   

       63.290 [1959 c.660 §9; repealed by 1981
c.68 §1] 

   

       63.300 [1959 c.660 §10; repealed by 1981
c.68 §1] 

   

       63.310 [1959 c.660 §11; repealed by 1981
c.68 §1] 

   

       63.320 [1959 c.660 §12; repealed by 1981
c.68 §1] 

   

       63.330 [1959 c.660 §13; repealed by 1981
c.68 §1] 

   

       63.340 [1959 c.660 §15; repealed by 1981
c.68 §1] 

   

       63.350 [1959 c.660 §16; repealed by 1981
c.68 §1] 

   

 AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES OF
ORGANIZATION AND OPERATING AGREEMENT 

   

       63.431
Operating agreement. 
(1) An operating agreement of a limited liability company may provide for the
regulation and management of the affairs of the limited liability company in
any manner not inconsistent with law or the articles of organization. 

       (2) The power to
adopt, alter, amend or repeal an operating agreement of a limited liability
company shall be vested in the members of the limited liability company, or for
a single member limited liability company, in the sole member of the limited
liability company, unless otherwise vested in a manager or managers of the
limited liability company by the articles of organization or any operating
agreement. 

       (3) The members
may amend or repeal any operating agreement even if the articles of
organization or any operating agreement provide that a manager or managers may
amend or repeal an operating agreement. [1993 c.173 §70; 1997 c.646 §8] 

   

       63.434
Amendment to articles of organization. 
(1) Consistent with the provisions of this chapter, a limited liability company
may amend its articles of organization at any time to add, change or delete any
provision, provided that the articles of organization as amended contain only
such provisions as are required or permitted in initial articles of
organization under this chapter as of the effective date of the amendment. 

       (2) A limited
liability company amending its articles of organization shall deliver articles
of amendment to the office for filing. 

       (3) Articles of
amendment shall contain: 

       (a) The name of
the limited liability company; 

       (b) The text of
each amendment adopted; 

       (c) The date of
each amendment’s adoption; 

       (d) If an
amendment was adopted by the managers without member action, a statement to
that effect and a statement that member action was not required; and 

       (e) If an
amendment was approved by the members, a statement that the member approval
required under ORS 63.444, the articles of organization or any operating
agreement has been obtained and a statement of the percentage of such members’
approval. [1993 c.173 §71] 

   

       63.437
Restated articles of organization. 
(1) The managers of a manager-managed limited liability company may restate its
articles of organization at any time with or without member action. 

       (2) The
restatement may include one or more amendments to the articles of organization.
If the restatement includes an amendment requiring member approval, it must be
adopted as provided in ORS 63.444. 

       (3) A limited
liability company restating its articles of organization shall deliver to the
office for filing articles of restatement setting forth the name of the limited
liability company and the text of the restated articles of organization
together with a certificate setting forth: 

       (a) Whether the
restatement contains an amendment to the articles of organization requiring
member approval and, if it does not, that the managers adopted the restatement;
or 

       (b) If the
restatement contains an amendment to the articles of organization requiring
member approval, the information required by ORS 63.434. 

       (4) Restated
articles of organization shall contain all statements required to be included
in the initial articles of organization except that no statement is required to
be made with respect to: 

       (a) The names and
addresses of the organizers or the initial or present registered office or
agent; or 

       (b) The mailing
address of the limited liability company if an annual report has been filed
with the office of the Secretary of State. 

       (5) Duly adopted
restated articles of organization supersede the initial articles of
organization and all amendments to them. [1993 c.173 §72; 1999 c.86 §13] 

   

       63.441
Amendment by managers. 
Except as provided in the articles of organization, the manager or managers of
a manager-managed limited liability company may adopt without member action one
or more amendments to the articles of organization to: 

       (1) Delete the
names and addresses of the initial managers, if named in the initial articles
of organization; 

       (2) Delete the
name and address of the initial registered agent or registered office, if a
statement of change is filed with the office of the Secretary of State; 

       (3) Delete the
mailing address of the limited liability company if a report reflecting the
mailing address has been filed with the office of the Secretary of State; 

       (4) Change the
limited liability company’s name by substituting “limited liability company”
for the abbreviation “L.L.C.” or “LLC,” substituting the abbreviation “L.L.C.”
for “limited liability company” or “LLC,” or substituting the abbreviation “LLC”
for “limited liability company” or “L.L.C.”; or 

       (5) Make any
other changes expressly permitted by this chapter to be made without member
action. [1993 c.173 §73; 1995 c.93 §16; 1999 c.86 §14] 

   

       63.444
Amendment by members. 
Except as otherwise provided in ORS 63.441 or in the articles of organization
or any operating agreement, all amendments to the articles of organization or
any operating agreement must be approved unanimously by the members. Unless
otherwise provided in the articles of organization or any operating agreement,
the managers, if any, of the limited liability company may, but need not,
propose or take a position recommending or disapproving any such proposed
amendment. [1993 c.173 §74; 1995 c.93 §17; 1997 c.646 §9] 

   

 CONVERSIONS AND MERGERS 

   

       63.467
Definitions for ORS 63.467 to 63.497. 
As used in ORS 63.467 to 63.497: 

       (1) “Business
entity” means: 

       (a) Any of the
following for-profit entities: 

       (A) A
professional corporation organized under ORS chapter 58, predecessor law or
comparable law of another jurisdiction; 

       (B) A corporation
organized under ORS chapter 60, predecessor law or comparable law of another
jurisdiction; 

       (C) A limited
liability company organized under this chapter or comparable law of another
jurisdiction; 

       (D) A partnership
organized in Oregon after January 1, 1998, or that is registered as a limited
liability partnership, or that has elected to be governed by ORS chapter 67,
and a partnership governed by law of another jurisdiction that expressly
provides for conversions and mergers; and 

       (E) A limited
partnership organized under ORS chapter 70, predecessor law or comparable law
of another jurisdiction; and 

       (b) A cooperative
organized under ORS chapter 62, predecessor law or comparable law of another
jurisdiction. 

       (2) “Organizational
document” means the following for an Oregon business entity or, for a foreign
business entity, a document equivalent to the following: 

       (a) In the case
of a corporation, professional corporation or cooperative, articles of
incorporation; 

       (b) In the case
of a limited liability company, articles of organization; 

       (c) In the case
of a partnership, a partnership agreement and, for a limited liability
partnership, its registration; and 

       (d) In the case
of a limited partnership, a certificate of limited partnership. 

       (3) “Owner” means
a: 

       (a) Shareholder
of a corporation or of a professional corporation; 

       (b) Member or
shareholder of a cooperative; 

       (c) Member of a
limited liability company; 

       (d) Partner of a
partnership; and 

       (e) General
partner or limited partner of a limited partnership. [1999 c.362 §31; 2003 c.80
§27] 

   

       63.470
Conversion. (1)(a)
A business entity may be converted to a limited liability company organized
under this chapter. 

       (b) A limited
liability company organized under this chapter may be converted to another
business entity organized under the laws of this state if the statutes that
govern the other business entity permit the conversion. 

       (c) A business
entity may perform a conversion described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this
subsection by approving a plan of conversion and filing articles of conversion. 

       (2) A limited
liability company organized under this chapter may be converted to a business
entity organized under the laws of another jurisdiction if: 

       (a) The laws of
the other jurisdiction permit the conversion; 

       (b) The
converting limited liability company approves a plan of conversion; 

       (c) Articles of
conversion are filed in this state; 

       (d)(A) The
converted business entity submits an application for filing to the Secretary of
State to transact business as a foreign business entity of the type into which
the limited liability company converted unless the converted business entity
does not intend to continue to transact business in this state; and 

       (B) The converted
business entity meets all other requirements the laws of this state prescribe
for authorization to transact business as a foreign business entity of the type
into which the business entity converted; and 

       (e) The limited
liability company complies with any requirements that the laws of the other
jurisdiction impose with respect to the conversion. 

       (3) The plan of
conversion must set forth: 

       (a) The name and
type of the business entity prior to conversion; 

       (b) The name and
type of the business entity after conversion; 

       (c) A summary of
the material terms and conditions of the conversion; 

       (d) The manner
and basis of converting the ownership interests of each owner into ownership
interests or obligations of the converted business entity or any other business
entity, or into cash or other property in whole or in part; and 

       (e) Any
additional information that the statutes that govern converted business
entities of the type into which the limited liability company converted require
in the organizational document of the converted business entity. 

       (4) The plan of
conversion may set forth other provisions relating to the conversion. [1999
c.362 §32; 2001 c.315 §16; 2003 c.80 §20; 2011 c.147 §9] 

   

       63.473 Action
on plan of conversion. 
(1) A plan of conversion shall be approved as follows: 

       (a) In the case
of a limited liability company, by a majority vote of its members, or by a
greater vote if required by its articles of organization or any operating
agreement. 

       (b) In the case
of a business entity other than a limited liability company, as provided by the
statutes governing that business entity. 

       (2) After a
conversion is approved, and at any time before articles of conversion are
filed, the planned conversion may be abandoned, subject to any contractual
rights: 

       (a) By a limited
liability company, without further action by the members, in accordance with
the procedure set forth in the plan of conversion or, if none is set forth, in
the manner determined by the managers. 

       (b) By a
converting business entity that is not a limited liability company, in
accordance with the procedure set forth in the plan of conversion or, if none
is set forth, in the manner permitted by the statutes governing that business
entity. [1999 c.362 §33] 

   

       63.476
Articles and plan of conversion. 
(1) After the owners approve a conversion, the converting business entity
shall: 

       (a) File articles
of conversion that state the name and type of business entity that existed
before conversion and the name and type of business entity that will exist
after conversion; and 

       (b) File a plan
of conversion or, in lieu of a plan of conversion, a written declaration that: 

       (A) Identifies an
address for an office of the converted entity where the plan of conversion is
on file; and 

       (B) States that
the converted entity will provide any owner with a copy of the plan of
conversion upon request and at no cost. 

       (2) The
conversion takes effect at the later of the date and time determined in
accordance with ORS 63.011 or the date and time determined under the statutes
that govern the business entity that is not a limited liability company. [1999
c.362 §34; 2001 c.315 §9; 2015 c.28 §3] 

   

       63.479 Effect
of conversion; entity existence continues; assumed business name. (1) When a conversion to or from a
limited liability company pursuant to ORS 63.470 takes effect: 

       (a) The business
entity continues its existence despite the conversion; 

       (b) Title to all
real estate and other property owned by the converting business entity is
vested in the converted business entity without reversion or impairment; 

       (c) All
obligations of the converting business entity including, without limitation,
contractual, tort, statutory and administrative obligations are obligations of
the converted business entity; 

       (d) An action or
proceeding pending against the converting business entity or its owners may be
continued as if the conversion had not occurred, or the converted business
entity may be substituted as a party to the action or proceeding; 

       (e) The ownership
interests of each owner that are to be converted into ownership interests or
obligations of the converted business entity or any other business entity, or
into cash or other property, are converted as provided in the plan of
conversion; 

       (f) Liability of
an owner for obligations of the business entity shall be determined: 

       (A) As to
liabilities incurred by the business entity prior to conversion, according to
laws applicable prior to conversion; and 

       (B) As to
liabilities incurred by the business entity after conversion, according to laws
applicable after conversion, except as provided in paragraph (g) of this
subsection; 

       (g) If prior to
conversion an owner of a business entity was a partner of a partnership or
general partner of a limited partnership and was personally liable for the
business entity’s liabilities, and after conversion is an owner normally
protected from personal liability, then such owner shall continue to be
personally liable for the business entity’s liabilities incurred during the 12
months following conversion, if the other party or parties to the transaction
reasonably believed that the owner would be personally liable and had not
received notice of the conversion; and 

       (h) Unless the
converted business entity is a partnership, the registration of an assumed
business name of a business entity under ORS chapter 648 shall continue as the
assumed business name of the converted business entity. If the converted
business entity is a partnership, the converting business entity shall amend or
cancel the registration of the assumed business name under ORS chapter 648, and
the partners of the partnership shall register the name as an assumed business
name under ORS chapter 648. 

       (2) Owners of the
business entity that converted are entitled to: 

       (a) In the case
of limited liability companies, only the rights provided in the plan of
conversion; and 

       (b) In the case
of owners of business entities other than limited liability companies, the
rights provided in the plan of conversion and in the statutes applicable to the
business entity prior to conversion, including, without limitation, any rights
to dissent, to dissociate, to withdraw, to recover for breach of any duty or
obligation owed by the other owners, and to obtain an appraisal or payment for
the value of an owner’s interest. [1999 c.362 §35; 2001 c.315 §4] 

   

       63.481 Merger. (1) One or more business entities
may merge into a limited liability company organized under this chapter if the
merger is permitted by the statutes governing each other business entity that
is a party to the merger, a plan of merger is approved by each business entity
that is a party to the merger and articles of merger are filed. A limited
liability company organized under this chapter may be merged into a business
entity organized under the laws of this state or under the laws of another
jurisdiction if: 

       (a) The merger is
permitted by the laws of this state or by the laws of the other jurisdiction
that govern the other business entity; 

       (b) A plan of
merger is approved by each business entity that is a party to the merger; 

       (c) Articles of
merger are filed in this state; and 

       (d) The limited
liability company complies with any requirements imposed under the laws of this
state and, if applicable, the laws of the other jurisdiction with respect to
the merger. 

       (2) The plan of
merger shall set forth: 

       (a) The name and
type of each business entity planning to merge; 

       (b) The name and
type of the business entity that will survive; 

       (c) A summary of
the material terms and conditions of the merger; 

       (d) The manner
and basis of converting the ownership interests of each owner into ownership
interests or obligations of the surviving business entity or any other business
entity, or into cash or other property in whole or in part; and 

       (e) If any party
is a business entity other than a limited liability company, any additional
information required for a merger by the statutes governing that business
entity. 

       (3) The plan of
merger may set forth: 

       (a) Amendments to
the articles of organization of a limited liability company, if that company is
the surviving business entity; and 

       (b) Other
provisions relating to the merger. [1993 c.173 §90; 1999 c.362 §36; 2001 c.315 §17;
2003 c.80 §21] 

   

       63.487 Action
on plan of merger. 
(1) A plan of merger shall be approved by each business entity that is a party
to the merger, as follows: 

       (a) In the case
of a limited liability company, by a majority vote of its members, or by a
greater vote if required by its articles of organization or any operating
agreement. 

       (b) In the case
of a business entity other than a limited liability company, as provided by the
statutes governing that business entity. 

       (2) After a
merger is authorized, and at any time before articles of merger are filed, the
planned merger may be abandoned, subject to any contractual rights: 

       (a) By the
limited liability company, without further action by the members, in accordance
with the procedure set forth in the plan of merger or, if none is set forth, in
the manner determined by the managers. 

       (b) By a party to
the merger that is not a limited liability company, in accordance with the
procedure set forth in the plan of merger or, if none is set forth, in the
manner permitted by the statutes governing that business entity. [1993 c.173 §91;
1999 c.362 §37] 

   

       63.494
Articles and plan of merger. 
(1) After each business entity that is a party to a merger approves a plan of
merger, the surviving business entity shall deliver to the office of the
Secretary of State for filing: 

       (a) Articles of
merger that set forth the name and type of each business entity that intends to
merge and the name and type of the business entity that will survive the
merger; 

       (b) A plan of
merger or, in lieu of a plan of merger, a written declaration that: 

       (A) Identifies an
address for an office of the surviving entity where the plan of merger is on
file; and 

       (B) States that
the surviving entity will provide any owner, member or shareholder of any
constituent entity with a copy of the plan of merger upon request and at no
cost; and 

       (c) A written
declaration that states that each business entity that is a party to the merger
duly authorized and approved the plan of merger in accordance with ORS 63.487. 

       (2) The merger
takes effect on the later of the date and time determined in accordance with
ORS 63.011 or the date and time determined under the statutes that govern any
party to the merger that is a business entity other than a limited liability
company. [1993 c.173 §92; 1999 c.362 §38; 2015 c.28 §4] 

   

       63.497 Effect
of merger. (1)
When a merger involving a limited liability company takes effect: 

       (a) Every other
business entity that is a party to the merger merges into the surviving
business entity, and the separate existence of every other party ceases; 

       (b) Title to all
real estate and other property owned by each of the business entities that were
parties to the merger is vested in the surviving business entity without
reversion or impairment; 

       (c) All
obligations of each of the business entities that were parties to the merger,
including, without limitation, contractual, tort, statutory and administrative
obligations, are obligations of the surviving business entity; 

       (d) An action or
proceeding pending against each of the business entities or its owners that
were parties to the merger may be continued as if the merger had not occurred,
or the surviving business entity may be substituted as a party to the action or
proceeding; 

       (e) If a limited
liability company is the surviving business entity, its articles of
organization are amended to the extent provided in the plan of merger; 

       (f) The ownership
interests of each owner that are to be converted into ownership interests or
obligations of the surviving business entity or any other business entity, or
into cash or other property, are converted as provided in the plan of merger; 

       (g) Liability of
an owner for obligations of a business entity that is a party to the merger
shall be determined: 

       (A) As to
liabilities incurred by the business entity prior to merger, according to the
laws applicable prior to merger; and 

       (B) As to
liabilities incurred by the business entity after merger, according to the laws
applicable after merger, except as provided in paragraph (h) of this
subsection; 

       (h) If prior to
merger an owner of a business entity was a partner of a partnership or general
partner of a limited partnership and was personally liable for the business
entity’s liabilities, and after merger is an owner normally protected from
personal liability, then such owner shall continue to be personally liable for
the business entity’s liabilities incurred during the 12 months following
merger, if the other party or parties to the transaction reasonably believed
that the owner would be personally liable and had not received notice of the
merger; and 

       (i) The
registration of an assumed business name of a business entity under ORS chapter
648 shall not be affected by the merger. 

       (2) Owners of the
business entities that are parties to the merger are entitled to: 

       (a) In the case
of members of limited liability companies, only the rights provided in the
articles of merger; and 

       (b) In the case
of owners of business entities other than limited liability companies, the
rights provided in the statutes applicable to the business entity prior to
merger, including, without limitation, any rights to dissent, to dissociate, to
withdraw, to recover for breach of any duty or obligation owed by the other
owners, and to obtain an appraisal or payment for the value of an owner’s
interest. [1993 c.173 §93; 1999 c.362 §39] 

   

       63.501 [1993 c.173 §94; repealed by 1999
c.362 §67] 

   

 DISSOLUTION 

   

 (Generally) 

   

       63.621
Dissolution. A
limited liability company is dissolved and its affairs shall be wound up upon
the first to occur of the following: 

       (1) Upon reaching
the time for dissolution, if any, specified in the articles of organization. 

       (2) Upon the
occurrence of events specified in the articles of organization or any operating
agreement. 

       (3) By the vote
or such other action of the members as provided in the articles of organization
or any operating agreement or, if neither the articles of organization nor any
operating agreement so provides, by the consent of all the members. 

       (4) At such time
as the limited liability company has no members. 

       (5) Upon
administrative dissolution by the Secretary of State under ORS 63.651. 

       (6) Upon entry of
a judgment of judicial dissolution under ORS 63.671. [1993 c.173 §54; 1995 c.93
§18; 1997 c.646 §10; 2003 c.576 §327] 

   

       63.625
Distribution of assets upon dissolution. Upon the winding up of a limited liability company,
the assets shall be distributed as follows: 

       (1) To the extent
permitted by law, to creditors, including members and former members who are
creditors, in satisfaction of liabilities of the limited liability company
other than liabilities for distributions to members under ORS 63.200 or 63.249; 

       (2) Except as
provided in the articles of organization or any operating agreement, to members
and former members of the limited liability company in satisfaction of the
limited liability company’s obligations for distributions due and owing under
ORS 63.200 or 63.249; and 

       (3) Except as
provided in the articles of organization or any operating agreement, to members
of the limited liability company first for the return of their previously
unreturned contributions and thereafter in the proportions in which the members
share in profits. [1993 c.173 §59; 1997 c.646 §11] 

   

       63.629 Agency
power of members and managers after dissolution. (1) Except as provided in
subsections (2) and (3) of this section, and except as otherwise provided in
the articles of organization or any operating agreement, after dissolution of
the limited liability company, each member of a member-managed limited liability
company and each manager of a manager-managed limited liability company can
bind the limited liability company: 

       (a) By any act or
omission appropriate for winding up the limited liability company’s affairs or
completing transactions unfinished at dissolution; and 

       (b) By any
transaction that would have bound the limited liability company if it had not
been dissolved, if the other party to the transaction does not have actual
notice of the dissolution. 

       (2) An act or
omission of a member or manager that would not be binding on the limited
liability company pursuant to subsection (1) of this section is binding if it
is otherwise authorized or ratified by the limited liability company. 

       (3) An act or
omission of a member or manager that would be binding on the limited liability
company under subsection (1) of this section or that otherwise would be
authorized, but that is in contravention of a restriction on the authority of
the member or manager shall not bind the limited liability company to persons
having knowledge of the restriction. [1993 c.173 §61; 1995 c.93 §19; 1997 c.646
§12; 1999 c.86 §15] 

   

       63.631
Articles of dissolution. 
At any time following dissolution of the limited liability company, the limited
liability company may deliver to the office of the Secretary of State articles
of dissolution setting forth: 

       (1) The name of
the limited liability company; and 

       (2) The date the
dissolution occurred. [1993 c.173 §60; 1995 c.93 §20] 

   

       63.637 Effect
of dissolution; winding up. 
(1) A dissolved limited liability company continues its existence, but may not
carry on any business except that which is appropriate to wind up and liquidate
its business and affairs, including the actions specified in ORS 60.637 for a
dissolved corporation. The limitation on personal liability otherwise provided
in this chapter for members and managers shall continue following dissolution
for actions appropriate to the winding up and liquidation. 

       (2) Dissolution
of a limited liability company does not: 

       (a) Transfer
title to the limited liability company’s property; 

       (b) Subject its
members, managers or employees to standards of conduct different from those
prescribed in this chapter; 

       (c) Prevent
commencement of a proceeding by or against the limited liability company in its
limited liability company name; 

       (d) Abate or
suspend a proceeding by or against the limited liability company on the
effective date of the dissolution; or 

       (e) Terminate the
authority of the registered agent of the limited liability company. 

       (3) Except as
otherwise provided in the articles of organization or any operating agreement,
the manager or managers or, if the articles of organization do not provide for
managers, the members who have not wrongfully dissolved a limited liability
company may wind up the limited liability company’s affairs. However, the
circuit court, upon cause shown, may wind up the limited liability company’s
affairs upon application of any member or the member’s legal representative or
assignee. [1993 c.173 §55; 1995 c.93 §21] 

   

       63.641 Known
claims against dissolved limited liability company. (1) A dissolved limited liability
company may dispose of the known claims against it by the procedure described
in this section. 

       (2) The dissolved
limited liability company shall notify its known claimants in writing of the
dissolution at any time after the dissolution. The written notice must: 

       (a) Describe
information that must be included in a claim; 

       (b) Provide a
mailing address where a claim may be sent; 

       (c) State the
deadline, which may not be fewer than 120 days from the effective date of the
written notice, by which the dissolved limited liability company must receive
the claim; and 

       (d) State that
the claim will be barred if not received by the deadline. 

       (3) A claim
against the dissolved limited liability company is barred: 

       (a) If a claimant
who is given written notice under subsection (2) of this section does not
deliver the claim to the dissolved limited liability company by the deadline;
or 

       (b) If a claimant
whose claim was rejected by the dissolved limited liability company does not
commence a proceeding to enforce the claim within 90 days from the effective
date of the rejection notice. 

       (4) For purposes
of this section, “claim” does not include a contingent liability or a claim
based on an event occurring after the effective date of dissolution. [1993
c.173 §56] 

   

       63.644 Unknown
claims against dissolved limited liability company; use of insurance assets of
dissolved company. 
(1) A dissolved limited liability company that has filed articles of
dissolution in accordance with ORS 63.631 may publish notice of the limited
liability company’s dissolution and request that persons with claims against
the limited liability company present the claims in accordance with the notice. 

       (2) The notice
must: 

       (a) Be published
one time in a newspaper of general circulation in the county where the
dissolved limited liability company’s principal office is located or, if the
principal office is not in this state, where the dissolved limited liability
company’s registered office is or was last located; 

       (b) Describe the
information that must be included in a claim and provide a mailing address
where the claim may be sent; and 

       (c) State that,
except as provided in subsection (4) of this section, a claim against the
limited liability company will be barred unless a proceeding to enforce the
claim is commenced within five years after the publication of the notice. 

       (3) If a
dissolved limited liability company publishes a newspaper notice in accordance
with subsection (2) of this section, the claim of each of the following
claimants is barred, except as provided in subsection (4) of this section,
unless the claimant commences a proceeding to enforce the claim against the
dissolved limited liability company within five years after the publication
date of the newspaper notice: 

       (a) A claimant
who did not receive written notice under ORS 63.641; 

       (b) A claimant
whose claim was sent in a timely manner to the dissolved limited liability
company but not acted on; or 

       (c) A claimant
whose claim is contingent or based on an event occurring after the effective
date of dissolution. 

       (4)(a) A claim
against a dissolved limited liability company that may be satisfied, in whole
or in part, by insurance assets held by, on behalf of or for the benefit of the
dissolved limited liability company, including any rights, benefits or proceeds
arising or derived from the insurance assets, is not subject to the time
limitation set forth in subsection (3) of this section, but is subject to other
applicable statutes of limitation. A claimant that brings a claim after the
time limitation set forth in subsection (3) of this section may not recover
from the dissolved limited liability company more than the rights, benefits or
proceeds available from the insurance assets. 

       (b)
Notwithstanding ORS 63.121, a claimant may serve a summons or other process
upon a dissolved limited liability company for a claim described in paragraph
(a) of this subsection by delivering the summons or process to a manager or
officer of the dissolved limited liability company, to a person that has charge
of the dissolved limited liability company’s assets or, if the claimant cannot
locate the manager, officer or person, to any agent who was authorized to
accept service of process immediately before the limited liability company
dissolved. 

       (c) If a claimant
states in an affidavit to a circuit court of this state that the claimant
cannot after due diligence locate any of the persons described in paragraph (b)
of this subsection, the court may provide in an order that the claimant may
serve process upon the dissolved limited liability company by personally
delivering the service, together with a copy of the court’s order, to the
office of the Secretary of State. Service delivered as provided in this
paragraph is complete on the 10th day after the delivery. [1993 c.173 §57; 2021
c.221 §3; 2023 c.9 §2] 

   

       63.645
Enforcement of claims against dissolved limited liability company. A claim against a dissolved
limited liability company that is not barred under ORS 63.641 or 63.644 may be
enforced: 

       (1) Against the
dissolved limited liability company to the extent of the dissolved limited
liability company’s undistributed assets, including, without limitation, any
insurance assets held by or for the benefit of the dissolved limited liability
company that are available to satisfy the claim; or 

       (2) If the assets
have been distributed in liquidation, against each member of the dissolved
limited liability company for the amount by which such member’s liquidation
distributions would have been reduced if the claim had been paid by the limited
liability company. A member’s total liability for all claims under this section
may not exceed the total value of assets distributed to the member, as of the
date or dates of distribution, less any liability of the limited liability
company paid on behalf of the limited liability company by that member after
the date of the distribution. [1993 c.173 §58; 2021 c.221 §4] 

   

       Note: Section 5, chapter 221, Oregon
Laws 2021, provides: 

       Sec. 5. (1) The amendments to ORS 60.644,
60.645, 63.644 and 63.645 by sections 1 to 4 of this 2021 Act apply to claims
against a dissolved corporation or dissolved limited liability company whether
the claims arise before, on or after the effective date of this 2021 Act
[September 25, 2021], including claims against corporations or limited
liability companies that dissolved before the effective date of this 2021 Act,
for which a final judgment, including the exhaustion or expiration of all
rights of appeal, has not been entered as of the effective date of this 2021
Act. 

       (2) The
amendments to ORS 60.644, 60.645, 63.644 and 63.645 by sections 1 to 4 of this
2021 Act revive and allow claims that might have become barred by the time
limitations set forth in chapter 361, General Laws of Oregon 1917, in chapter
340, General Laws of Oregon 1927, in chapter 40, Oregon Laws 1937, in chapter
404, Oregon Laws 1939, in section 11, chapter 462, Oregon Laws 1941, in section
1, chapter 134, Oregon Laws 1947, or in ORS 57.630 (1985 Replacement Part),
60.644 (3) or 63.644 (3). [2021 c.221 §5] 

   

 (Administrative
Dissolution) 

   

       63.647 Grounds
for administrative dissolution. 
The Secretary of State may commence a proceeding under ORS 63.651 to
administratively dissolve a limited liability company if: 

       (1) The limited
liability company does not pay when due any fees imposed by this chapter; 

       (2) The limited
liability company does not deliver the limited liability company’s annual
report to the Secretary of State when due; 

       (3) The limited
liability company fails to comply with an order from the Secretary of State
under ORS 63.032 (1) or is the subject of a recommendation for dissolution from
the Director of the Department of Revenue under ORS 63.032 (3); 

       (4) The limited
liability company is without a registered agent or registered office in this
state; 

       (5) The limited
liability company does not notify the Secretary of State that the limited
liability company’s registered agent or registered office has changed, that the
registered agent has resigned or that the registered office has been
discontinued; or 

       (6) The limited
liability company’s period of duration stated in the articles of organization
expires. [1993 c.173 §62; 2017 c.705 §23] 

   

       63.651
Procedure; effect of administrative dissolution. (1) If the Secretary of State
determines that one or more grounds exist under ORS 63.647 for dissolving a
limited liability company, the Secretary of State shall give the limited
liability company written notice of the determination. 

       (2) If the
limited liability company does not correct each ground for dissolution or
demonstrate to the reasonable satisfaction of the Secretary of State, within 45
days after notice is given, that each of the grounds that the Secretary of
State has determined to be a ground for the dissolution does not exist, the
Secretary of State shall dissolve the limited liability company. 

       (3) A limited
liability company administratively dissolved continues the limited liability
company’s existence but may not carry on any activities except activities that
are necessary or appropriate to wind up and liquidate the limited liability
company’s business and affairs under ORS 63.637 and notify claimants under ORS
63.641 and 63.644. 

       (4) The
administrative dissolution of a limited liability company does not terminate
the authority of the limited liability company’s registered agent. [1993 c.173 §63;
1993 c.173 §106; 2013 c.159 §9] 

   

       63.654
Reinstatement following administrative dissolution. (1) A limited liability company
that the Secretary of State administratively dissolved under ORS 63.651 may
apply to the Secretary of State for reinstatement within five years from the
date of dissolution. The application must: 

       (a) State the
name of the limited liability company and the effective date of the limited
liability company’s administrative dissolution; and 

       (b) State that
the ground or grounds for dissolution either did not exist or have been
eliminated. 

       (2) If the
Secretary of State determines that the application contains the information
required by subsection (1) of this section, that the information is correct and
that the limited liability company’s name satisfies the requirements of ORS
63.094, the Secretary of State shall reinstate the limited liability company. 

       (3) When
effective, the reinstatement relates back to and takes effect as of the
effective date of the administrative dissolution and the limited liability
company resumes carrying on the limited liability company’s business as if the
administrative dissolution had never occurred. 

       (4) The Secretary
of State may waive the requirement under subsection (1) of this section that
the limited liability company apply for reinstatement within five years after
the date of administrative dissolution if the limited liability company
requests the waiver and provides evidence of the limited liability company’s
continued existence as an active concern during the period of administrative
dissolution. [1993 c.173 §64; 1995 c.215 §11; 2011 c.147 §10] 

   

       63.657 Appeal
from denial of reinstatement. 
(1) If the Secretary of State denies a limited liability company’s application
for reinstatement following administrative dissolution, the Secretary of State
shall give written notice to the limited liability company that explains the
reason or reasons for denial. 

       (2) The limited
liability company may appeal the denial of the reinstatement pursuant to the
provisions of ORS chapter 183. [1993 c.173 §65] 

   

 (Judicial Dissolution) 

   

       63.661 Grounds
for judicial dissolution; finding that limited liability company is shell
entity; prima facie showing by Attorney General; effects; affirmative defenses. (1) A circuit court may dissolve a
limited liability company: 

       (a) In a
proceeding by the Attorney General if the court finds that: 

       (A) The limited
liability company filed articles of organization with fraudulent intent, with
fraudulent information or in a manner that otherwise indicates fraud; 

       (B) The limited
liability company has continued to exceed or abuse the authority conferred upon
the limited liability company by law; or 

       (C) The limited
liability company is a shell entity. For purposes of this subparagraph: 

       (i) A court may
find that a limited liability company is a shell entity if the court determines
that the limited liability company was used or organized for an illegal
purpose, was used or organized to defraud or deceive a person or a governmental
agency or was used or organized to fraudulently conceal any business activity
from another person or a governmental agency; and 

       (ii) The Attorney
General may make a prima facie showing that a limited liability company is a
shell entity by stating in an affidavit that: 

       (I) The limited
liability company did not provide a name or address required by the Secretary
of State, or the name or address the limited liability company provided was
false, fraudulent or inadequate; 

       (II) The limited
liability company’s articles of organization, a record the limited liability
company must keep under ORS 63.771 or the limited liability company’s annual
report is false, fraudulent or inadequate; 

       (III) A public
body, as defined in ORS 174.109, attempted to communicate with, or serve legal
process upon, the limited liability company at the address or by means of other
contact information the limited liability company provided to the Secretary of
State, but the limited liability company failed to respond; or 

       (IV) The Attorney
General has other evidence that shows that the limited liability company was
used or organized for an illegal purpose, was used or organized to defraud or
deceive a person or a governmental agency or was used or organized to
fraudulently conceal any business activity from another person or a
governmental agency. 

       (b) In a
proceeding by or for a member if the court finds that it is not reasonably
practicable to carry on the business of the limited liability company in
conformance with the articles of organization or any operating agreement. 

       (c) In a
proceeding by the limited liability company to have the limited liability
company’s voluntary dissolution continued under court supervision. 

       (2) In addition
to subjecting a limited liability company to dissolution under subsection
(1)(a)(C) of this section, a finding that a limited liability company is a
shell entity has the following effects: 

       (a) A court may
rebuttably presume that the limited liability company’s filings with the
Secretary of State constitute a false claim, as defined in ORS 180.750, in any
action the Attorney General brings against the limited liability company under
ORS 180.760 and may award to the Attorney General reasonable attorney fees and
the costs of investigation, preparation and litigation if the Attorney General
prevails in the action; and 

       (b) A public
body, as defined in ORS 174.109, in any proceeding against the limited
liability company, may move to enjoin a member, manager or other person that
exercises significant direction or control over the limited liability company
from engaging in commercial activity in this state, including but not limited
to incorporating or organizing another entity in this state. 

       (3) A limited
liability company may affirmatively defend against an allegation that the
limited liability company is a shell entity by showing that the limited
liability company, within 60 days after receiving a request to provide or
correct a name, address or other information required for a filing or in
articles of organization, a record the limited liability company must keep or
an annual report, or within 60 days after the date of a request to respond to a
communication or service of process, provided or corrected the name, address or
other information or responded to the communication or service of process. [1993
c.173 §66; 2017 c.705 §24] 

   

       63.664
Procedure for judicial dissolution. 
(1) Venue for a proceeding by the Attorney General to dissolve a limited
liability company lies in Marion County. Venue for a proceeding brought by any
other party named in ORS 63.661 lies in the county where a limited liability
company’s principal office is located or, if the principal office is not in
this state, where its registered office is or was last located. 

       (2) It is not
necessary to make members parties to a proceeding to dissolve a limited
liability company unless relief is sought against them individually. 

       (3) A court in a
proceeding brought to judicially dissolve a limited liability company may issue
injunctions, appoint a receiver or a custodian with all powers and duties the
court directs, and take other action required to preserve or liquidate the limited
liability company’s assets wherever located or carry on the business of the
limited liability company. [1993 c.173 §67] 

   

       63.671
Judgment of dissolution. 
(1) If after a hearing the court determines that one or more grounds for
judicial dissolution described in ORS 63.661 exist, it may enter a judgment
dissolving the limited liability company and specifying the effective date of
the dissolution. The clerk of the court shall deliver a certified copy of the
judgment to the office for filing. The Secretary of State shall file the
certified copy of the judgment. 

       (2) After
entering the judgment of dissolution, the court shall direct the winding up and
liquidation of the limited liability company’s business and affairs in
accordance with ORS 63.637, the notification of claimants and enforcement of
claims in accordance with ORS 63.641 and 63.644, and the distribution of
limited liability company assets in accordance with ORS 63.625. [1993 c.173 §68;
2003 c.576 §328] 

   

 (Disposition of Assets) 

   

       63.674 Deposit
with State Treasurer. 
Assets of a dissolved limited liability company that should be distributed to a
creditor, claimant or member of the limited liability company who cannot be
found or who is not competent to receive them shall be reduced to cash and,
within six months after the final distribution of such liquidation or winding
up is payable, deposited with the State Treasurer as unclaimed property under
ORS 98.352. The receiver or other liquidating agent shall prepare in duplicate
and under oath a statement containing the names and last-known addresses of the
persons entitled to such funds. One of the statements shall be filed with the
State Treasurer and another shall be delivered to the office for filing. [1993
c.173 §69; 2019 c.678 §49; 2021 c.424 §26] 

   

 FOREIGN LIMITED
LIABILITY COMPANIES 

   

 (Authority to Transact
Business) 

   

       63.701
Authority to transact business required. (1) A foreign limited liability company may not
transact business in this state until it has been authorized to do so by the
Secretary of State. 

       (2) The following
activities, among others, do not constitute transacting business within the
meaning of subsection (1) of this section: 

       (a) Maintaining,
defending or settling any proceeding. 

       (b) Holding
meetings of the managers or members or carrying on other activities concerning
internal affairs. 

       (c) Maintaining
bank accounts. 

       (d) Maintaining
offices or agencies for the transfer, exchange and registration of the foreign
limited liability company’s own securities or maintaining trustees or
depositories with respect to those securities. 

       (e) Selling
through independent contractors. 

       (f) Soliciting or
obtaining orders, whether by mail or through employees or agents or otherwise,
if the orders require acceptance outside this state before they become
contracts. 

       (g) Creating or
acquiring indebtedness, mortgages and security interests in real or personal
property. 

       (h) Securing or
collecting debts or enforcing mortgages and security interests in property
securing the debts. 

       (i) Owning,
without more, real or personal property. 

       (j) Conducting an
isolated transaction that is completed within 30 days and is not one in the
course of repeated transactions of a like nature. 

       (k) Transacting
business in interstate commerce. 

       (3) The list of
activities in subsection (2) of this section is not exhaustive. [1993 c.173 §75] 

   

       63.704
Consequences of transacting business without authority. (1) A foreign limited liability
company transacting business in this state without authorization from the
Secretary of State may not maintain a proceeding in any court in this state
until it obtains authorization from the Secretary of State to transact business
in this state. 

       (2) The successor
to a foreign limited liability company that transacted business in this state
without authority to transact business in this state and the assignee of a
cause of action arising out of that business may not maintain a proceeding
based on that cause of action in any court in this state until the foreign
limited liability company or its successor obtains authorization from the
Secretary of State to transact business in this state. 

       (3) A court may
stay a proceeding commenced by a foreign limited liability company or its
successor or assignee until it determines whether the foreign limited liability
company or its successor requires authorization from the Secretary of State to
transact business in this state. If it so determines, the court may further
stay the proceeding until the foreign limited liability company or its
successor obtains the authorization. 

       (4) A foreign
limited liability company that transacts business in this state without
authority shall be liable to this state for the years or parts thereof during
which it transacted business in this state without authority in an amount equal
to all fees that would have been imposed by this chapter upon the foreign
limited liability company had it duly applied for and received authority to
transact business in this state as required by this chapter and thereafter
filed all reports required by this chapter. 

       (5)
Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2) of this section, the failure of a
foreign limited liability company to obtain authority to transact business in
this state does not impair the validity of its acts or prevent it from
defending any proceeding in this state. 

       (6) A member of a
foreign limited liability company is not liable for the debts and obligations
of the foreign limited liability company solely by reason of the foreign
limited liability company’s having transacted business in this state without
authority. [1993 c.173 §76] 

   

       63.707
Application for authority to transact business. (1) A foreign limited liability
company may apply for authority to transact business in this state by
delivering an application to the office of the Secretary of State for filing.
The application must set forth: 

       (a) The name of
the foreign limited liability company or, if the name the foreign limited
liability company uses is unavailable for filing in this state, another name
that satisfies the requirements of ORS 63.717; 

       (b) The name of
the state or country under whose law the foreign limited liability company is
organized; 

       (c) The foreign
limited liability company’s registry number in the state or country under whose
law the foreign limited liability company is organized; 

       (d) The foreign
limited liability company’s date of organization and either the date on which
the period of the foreign limited liability company’s duration expires or a
statement that the duration is perpetual; 

       (e) The address,
including street and number, and mailing address, if different, of the foreign
limited liability company’s principal office; 

       (f) The address,
including street and number, of the foreign limited liability company’s
registered office in this state and the name of the foreign limited liability
company’s registered agent at the registered office; 

       (g) A statement
that the foreign limited liability company satisfies the requirements of ORS
63.714 (3); and 

       (h) A statement
as to whether the foreign limited liability company is member-managed or
manager-managed, or whether the foreign limited liability company is managed by
a manager or managers. 

       (2)(a) Except as
provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection, the foreign limited liability
company shall deliver with the completed application a certificate of
existence, or a document of similar import, current within 60 days of delivery
and authenticated by the official having custody of limited liability company
records in the state or country under whose law the foreign limited liability
company is organized. 

       (b) A foreign
limited liability company need not submit a certificate of existence or
document in accordance with paragraph (a) of this subsection if the official
who has custody of business entity records in the state or country under whose
law the foreign limited liability company is organized provides free access via
the Internet to a searchable database that contains evidence of limited
liability company registrations. [1993 c.173 §77; 1999 c.86 §16; 2005 c.22 §43;
2011 c.147 §11] 

   

       63.711
Amendment to application for authority. (1) A foreign limited liability company authorized to
transact business in this state shall deliver an amendment to the application
for authority to transact business in this state to the office for filing if it
changes: 

       (a) Its name as
shown on the records of the office; or 

       (b) The period of
its duration. 

       (2) The amendment
to the application for authority to transact business in this state shall set
forth its name shown on the records of the office and the new name or the new
period of duration. The name as changed must satisfy the requirements of ORS
63.094. [1993 c.173 §78] 

   

       63.714 Effect
of authority. (1)
The laws of the state or other jurisdiction under which a foreign limited
liability company is organized shall govern its organization and internal
affairs and the liability of its members. 

       (2) Except as
provided in subsection (3) of this section, a foreign limited liability company
may not be denied registration by reason of any difference between the laws of
this state and the laws of the state or other jurisdiction under which the
foreign limited liability company is organized. 

       (3)
Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2) of this section, no foreign limited
liability company shall be authorized or permitted to exercise any powers or
purposes or conduct any business or affairs in this state that a domestic
limited liability company is proscribed from exercising, pursuing or
undertaking in this state. [1993 c.173 §79; 1995 c.93 §22] 

   

       63.717 Name of
foreign limited liability company. 
(1) Except as provided in subsections (2) and (3) of this section, the
Secretary of State shall not authorize a foreign limited liability company to
transact business in this state if the name of the foreign limited liability
company does not conform to ORS 63.094. 

       (2) The name of
the foreign limited liability company must contain a word or abbreviation
required by ORS 63.094 unless the name contains some other word, phrase or
abbreviation that the laws of the place of organization require to denote a
limited liability company. 

       (3) If a limited
liability company name, corporate name, professional corporate name, nonprofit
corporate name, cooperative name, limited partnership name, business trust
name, reserved name, registered name or assumed business name of active record
with the office is not distinguishable on the records of the office from the
name of the applicant foreign limited liability company, the Secretary of State
shall not authorize the applicant to transact business in this state unless the
foreign limited liability company states its name on the application for
authority to transact business in this state under ORS 63.707 as (name under
which organized), a limited liability company of (place of organization), the
entirety of which shall be the real and true name of the foreign limited
liability company in this state under ORS chapter 648. 

       (4) If a foreign
limited liability company authorized to transact business in this state changes
its name to one that does not satisfy the requirements of this section, it may
not transact business in this state under the changed name until it adopts a name
satisfying the requirements of this section and ORS 63.711. [1993 c.173 §80] 

   

       63.721
Registered office and registered agent of foreign limited liability company. Each foreign limited liability
company authorized to transact business in this state must continuously
maintain in this state: 

       (1) A registered
office that may be, but need not be, the same as any of its places of business;
and 

       (2) A registered
agent who may be: 

       (a) An individual
who resides in this state and whose business office is identical to the
registered office; 

       (b) A domestic
limited liability company, a domestic corporation, a domestic professional
corporation or a domestic nonprofit corporation whose business office is
identical to the registered office; or 

       (c) A foreign
limited liability company, a foreign corporation, a foreign professional
corporation or a foreign nonprofit corporation authorized to transact business
in this state whose business office is identical to the registered office. [1993
c.173 §81; 2001 c.315 §28] 

   

       63.724 Change
of registered office or registered agent of foreign limited liability company. (1) A foreign limited liability
company authorized to transact business in this state may change its registered
office or registered agent by delivering to the office of the Secretary of
State for filing a statement of change that sets forth: 

       (a) The name of
the foreign limited liability company; 

       (b) If the
registered office is to be changed, the street address, including street and
number, of the new registered office; 

       (c) If the
registered agent is to be changed, the name of the new registered agent and a
statement that the new agent has consented to the appointment; and 

       (d) That after
the change or changes are made, the street addresses of the registered office
and the business office of its registered agent will be identical. 

       (2) If a
registered agent changes the street address of the agent’s business office, the
registered agent shall change the street address of the registered office of
the foreign limited liability company for which the agent is the registered
agent by notifying the foreign limited liability company in writing of the change
and signing, either manually or in facsimile, and delivering to the office of
the Secretary of State a statement of change that complies with the requirement
of subsection (1) of this section and states that the foreign limited liability
company has been notified of the change. 

       (3) The filing of
the statement by the Secretary of State shall terminate the existing registered
office or agent, or both, on the effective date of the filing and establish the
newly appointed registered office or agent, or both, as that of the foreign limited
liability company. [1993 c.173 §82] 

   

       63.727
Resignation of registered agent of a foreign limited liability company. (1) The registered agent of a
foreign limited liability company may resign as agent upon delivering a signed
statement to the office and giving notice in the form of a copy of the
statement to the foreign limited liability company. The statement of resignation
may include a statement that the registered office is also discontinued. 

       (2) Upon the
delivery of the signed statement, the Secretary of State shall file the
resignation statement. The copy of the statement given to the foreign limited
liability company under subsection (1) of this section shall be addressed to
the foreign limited liability company at its mailing address or its principal
office as shown by the records of the Secretary of State. 

       (3) The agency
appointment is terminated, and the registered office discontinued if so
provided in the signed statement under subsection (1) of this section, on the
31st day after the date on which the statement was filed by the Secretary of
State unless the foreign limited liability company has previously appointed a
successor registered agent, as provided in ORS 63.724, thereby terminating the
capacity of such agent. [1993 c.173 §83; 1993 c.173 §107] 

   

       63.731 Service
on a foreign limited liability company. (1) The registered agent appointed by a foreign
limited liability company authorized to transact business in this state shall
be its agent upon whom any process, notice or demand required or permitted by
law to be served upon the foreign limited liability company may be served. 

       (2) The Secretary
of State shall be an agent of a foreign limited liability company upon whom any
process, notice or demand may be served, if: 

       (a) The foreign
limited liability company is authorized to transact business in this state, and
it fails to appoint or maintain a registered agent in this state, or its
registered agent cannot with reasonable diligence be found at the registered
office; 

       (b) The foreign
limited liability company’s authority to transact business in this state has
been revoked; 

       (c) The foreign
limited liability company is transacting business in this state without being
authorized as provided in this chapter; 

       (d) The foreign
limited liability company has been authorized to transact business in this
state and has withdrawn; or 

       (e) The foreign
limited liability company has transacted business in this state without being
authorized to do so and has ceased to transact business. 

       (3) Service on
the Secretary of State of any such process, notice or demand shall be made in
the same manner as provided in ORS 63.121, except that when the foreign limited
liability company served is not authorized to transact business in this state
and was not authorized to transact business in this state at the time the
transaction, event or occurrence upon which the proceeding is based occurred,
the copy of the process, notice or demand shall be sent immediately by
registered or certified mail by the plaintiff or the attorney of the plaintiff
to the principal office or place of business of the foreign limited liability
company, instead of the last registered office of the foreign limited liability
company. 

       (4) The Secretary
of State shall keep a record of all processes, notices and demands served upon
the Secretary of State under this section. 

       (5) After
completion of initial service upon the Secretary of State, no additional
documents need to be served upon the Secretary of State to maintain
jurisdiction in the same proceeding or to give notice of any motion or
provisional process. 

       (6) Nothing
contained in this section shall limit or affect the right to serve any process,
notice or demand required or permitted by law to be served upon a foreign
limited liability company in any other manner permitted by law, or enlarge the
purposes for which service on the Secretary of State is permitted where such
purposes are limited by other provisions of law. [1993 c.173 §84] 

   

 (Withdrawal) 

   

       63.734
Withdrawal of foreign limited liability company. (1) A foreign limited liability
company authorized to transact business in this state may withdraw from
transacting business in this state by applying to the office for withdrawal.
The application shall set forth: 

       (a) The name of
the foreign limited liability company and the name of the state or country
under whose law it is organized; 

       (b) That it is
not transacting business in this state and that it surrenders its authority to
transact business in this state; 

       (c) That it
revokes the authority of its registered agent to accept service on its behalf
and appoints the Secretary of State as its agent for service of process in any
proceeding based on a cause of action arising during the time it was authorized
to transact business in this state; 

       (d) A mailing
address to which the person initiating any proceeding may mail to the foreign
limited liability company a copy of any process served on the Secretary of
State under paragraph (c) of this subsection; and 

       (e) A commitment
to notify the Secretary of State for a period of five years from the date of
withdrawal of any change in its mailing address. 

       (2) Upon filing
by the Secretary of State of the application to withdraw, the authority of the
foreign limited liability company to transact business in this state shall
cease. [1993 c.173 §85] 

   

 (Revocation of
Authority) 

   

       63.737 Grounds
for revocation. 
The Secretary of State may commence a proceeding under ORS 63.741 to revoke the
authority of a foreign limited liability company to transact business in this
state if: 

       (1) The foreign
limited liability company does not deliver the limited liability company’s
annual report to the Secretary of State within the time prescribed by this
chapter; 

       (2) The foreign
limited liability company does not pay within the time prescribed by this
chapter any fees imposed by this chapter; 

       (3) The foreign
limited liability company fails to comply with an order from the Secretary of
State under ORS 63.032 (1); 

       (4) The foreign
limited liability company has failed to appoint or maintain a registered agent
or registered office in this state as prescribed by this chapter; 

       (5) The foreign
limited liability company does not inform the Secretary of State under ORS
63.724 or 63.727 that the limited liability company’s registered agent or
registered office has changed, that the registered agent has resigned or that
the registered office has been discontinued; 

       (6) An organizer,
manager, member or agent of the foreign limited liability company signed a
document knowing the document was false in any material respect with intent
that the document be delivered to the office for filing; 

       (7) The foreign
limited liability company no longer satisfies the requirements of ORS 63.714
(3); 

       (8) The Secretary
of State receives a duly authenticated certificate from the official having
custody of the limited liability company records in the state or country under
whose law the foreign limited liability company is organized stating that the
foreign limited liability company has been dissolved or has ceased to exist as
the result of a merger or other reorganization transaction; or 

       (9) The period of
duration of the foreign limited liability company expires. [1993 c.173 §86;
2017 c.705 §25] 

   

       63.741
Procedure for and effect of revocation. (1) If the Secretary of State determines that one or
more grounds exist under ORS 63.737 for revocation of authority of a foreign
limited liability company to transact business in this state, the Secretary of
State shall give the foreign limited liability company written notice of the
determination. 

       (2) If the
foreign limited liability company does not correct each ground for revocation
or demonstrate to the reasonable satisfaction of the Secretary of State that
each ground determined by the Secretary of State does not exist within 45 days
after notice is given, the Secretary of State shall revoke the foreign limited
liability company’s authority. 

       (3) The authority
of a foreign limited liability company to transact business in this state
ceases as of the date of revocation of its authority to transact business in
this state. 

       (4) The Secretary
of State’s revocation of a foreign limited liability company’s authority to
transact business in this state appoints the Secretary of State as the foreign
limited liability company’s agent for service of process in any proceeding
based on a cause of action which arose during the time the foreign limited
liability company was authorized to transact business in this state. 

       (5) Revocation of
a foreign limited liability company’s authority to transact business in this
state terminates the authority of the registered agent of the foreign limited
liability company. [1993 c.173 §87; 1993 c.173 §108] 

   

       63.744 Appeal
from revocation. 
In addition to any other legal remedy which may be available, a foreign limited
liability company shall have the right to appeal the Secretary of State’s
revocation of its authority to transact business in this state pursuant to the
provisions of ORS chapter 183. [1993 c.173 §88] 

   

       63.747
Reinstatement of authority. 
(1) A foreign limited liability company that has had its authority revoked
under ORS 63.741 may apply to the Secretary of State for reinstatement within
five years from the date of revocation. The application shall: 

       (a) State the
name of the foreign limited liability company and the effective date its
authority was revoked; and 

       (b) State that
the ground or grounds for revocation of authority either did not exist or have
been eliminated. 

       (2) If the
Secretary of State determines that the application contains the information
required by subsection (1) of this section, that the information is correct and
that the foreign limited liability company’s name satisfies the requirements of
ORS 63.717, the Secretary of State shall reinstate the authority. 

       (3) When the
reinstatement is effective, it relates back to and takes effect as of the
effective date of the administrative revocation of authority and the foreign
limited liability company resumes carrying on its business as if the
administrative revocation of authority had never occurred. [1993 c.173 §89;
1995 c.215 §12] 

   

 RECORDS AND REPORTS 

   

 (Records) 

   

       63.771 Limited
liability company records. 
(1) Each limited liability company shall keep at an office specified in the
manner provided in any operating agreement or, if none, at the registered
office, the following: 

       (a) A current
list of the full name and last-known business, residence or mailing address of
each member and manager, both past and present. 

       (b) A copy of the
articles of organization and all amendments thereto, together with executed
copies of any powers of attorney pursuant to which any amendment has been
executed. 

       (c) Copies of the
limited liability company’s federal, state and local income tax returns and
reports, if any, for the three most recent years. 

       (d) Copies of any
currently effective written operating agreements and all amendments thereto,
copies of any writings permitted or required under this chapter, and copies of
any financial statements of the limited liability company for the three most
recent years. 

       (e) Unless
contained in a written operating agreement or in a writing permitted or
required under this chapter, a statement prepared and certified as accurate by
a manager of the limited liability company which describes: 

       (A) The amount of
cash and a description and statement of the agreed value of other property or
services contributed by each member and which each member has agreed to
contribute in the future; 

       (B) The times at
which or events on the occurrence of which any additional contributions agreed
to be made by each member are to be made; and 

       (C) If agreed
upon, the time at which or the events on the occurrence of which the limited
liability company is dissolved and its affairs wound up. 

       (2) Any limited
liability company records are subject to inspection and copying at the
reasonable request, and at the expense, of any member during ordinary business
hours. 

       (3) Failure of
the limited liability company to keep or maintain any of the records or
information required pursuant to this section shall not be grounds for imposing
liability on any person for the debts and obligations of the limited liability
company. [1993 c.173 §96; 1999 c.86 §22] 

   

       63.777 Scope
of inspection right. 
(1) A member’s agent or attorney has the same inspection and copying rights as
the member. 

       (2) The right to
copy records includes, if reasonable, the right to receive copies made by
photographic, xerographic or other means. 

       (3) The limited
liability company may impose a reasonable charge, covering the costs of labor
and material, for copies of any documents provided to the member. The charge
may not exceed the estimated cost of production or reproduction of the records. 

       (4) The limited
liability company may comply with a member’s demand to inspect the record of
members by providing the member with a list of members that was compiled no
earlier than the date of the member’s demand. [1993 c.173 §97] 

   

       63.781
Court-ordered inspection. 
(1) If a limited liability company does not allow a member to inspect and copy
any records required to be available for inspection, the circuit court of the
county where the limited liability company’s principal office is located, or,
if the principal office is not in this state, where its registered office is or
was last located, may summarily order inspection and copying of the records
demanded at the company’s expense upon application of the member. 

       (2) If a limited
liability company does not within a reasonable time allow a member to inspect
and copy any other record, the member may apply to the circuit court in the
county where the company’s principal office is located, or, if the principal
office is not in this state, where its registered office is or was last
located, for an order to permit inspection and copying of the records demanded. 

       (3) If the court
orders inspection and copying of the records demanded, it shall also order the
limited liability company to pay the member’s costs, including reasonable
counsel fees, incurred to obtain the order unless the company proves that it
refused inspection in good faith because it had a reasonable basis for doubt
about the right of the member to inspect the records demanded. 

       (4) If the court
orders inspection and copying of the records demanded, it may impose reasonable
restrictions on the use or distribution of the records by the demanding member. 

       (5) No order
shall be issued under this section without notice to the limited liability
company at least five days in advance of the time specified for the hearing
unless a different period is fixed by the court. The member’s request shall be
set for hearing at the earliest possible time and shall take precedence over
all matters, except matters of the same character and hearings on preliminary
injunctions under ORCP 79 B(3). [1993 c.173 §98] 

   

 (Reports) 

   

       63.784 Certain
expense reports to members. 
If a limited liability company indemnifies or advances expenses to a member or
manager under ORS 63.160 in connection with a proceeding by or in the right of
the limited liability company, the limited liability company shall report the
indemnification or advance in writing to the members. [1993 c.173 §99; 1999
c.86 §17] 

   

       63.787 Annual
report; updates; rules. 
(1) A domestic limited liability company, and a foreign limited liability
company authorized to transact business in this state, shall by the limited
liability company’s anniversary deliver to the office of the Secretary of State
for filing an annual report that sets forth: 

       (a) The name of
the limited liability company and the state or country under whose law the
limited liability company is organized; 

       (b) The street
address of the limited liability company’s registered office and name of the
limited liability company’s registered agent at the registered office in this
state; 

       (c) The address,
including street and number and mailing address, if different, of the limited
liability company’s principal office; 

       (d) The names and
addresses of the managers for a manager-managed limited liability company or
the name and address of at least one member for a member-managed limited
liability company; 

       (e) A description
of the primary business activity of the limited liability company; and 

       (f) Additional
identifying information that the Secretary of State may require by rule. 

       (2) The
information contained in the annual report must be current as of 30 days before
the anniversary of the limited liability company. 

       (3) The Secretary
of State shall mail the annual report form to any address shown for the limited
liability company in the current records of the office of the Secretary of
State. The failure of the limited liability company to receive the annual
report form from the Secretary of State does not relieve the limited liability
company of the limited liability company’s duty under this section to deliver
an annual report to the office. 

       (4) If an annual
report does not contain the information this section requires, the Secretary of
State shall notify the reporting domestic or foreign limited liability company
in writing and return the report to the domestic or foreign limited liability company
for correction. The domestic or foreign limited liability company must correct
the error within 45 days after the Secretary of State gives the notice. 

       (5)(a) A domestic
or foreign limited liability company may update information that is required or
permitted in an annual report filing at any time by delivering to the office of
the Secretary of State for filing: 

       (A) An amendment
to the annual report if a change in the information set forth in the annual
report occurs after the report is delivered to the office for filing and before
the next anniversary; or 

       (B) A statement
with the change if the update occurs before the domestic or foreign limited
liability company files the first annual report. 

       (b) This
subsection applies only to a change that is not required to be made by an
amendment to the articles of organization. 

       (c) The amendment
to the annual report filed under paragraph (a) of this subsection must set
forth: 

       (A) The name of
the limited liability company as shown on the records of the office; and 

       (B) The
information as changed. [1993 c.173 §100; 1995 c.93 §23; 1999 c.86 §18; 2007
c.186 §7; 2011 c.147 §12] 

   

 DERIVATIVE PROCEEDINGS 

   

       63.801
Derivative proceedings. 
(1) A member may not commence a proceeding in the right of a domestic or
foreign limited liability company unless the person was a member of the limited
liability company when the transaction complained of occurred or unless the
member became a member through transfer by operation of law from one who was a
member at that time. 

       (2) Except as
otherwise provided in writing in the articles of organization or any operating
agreement, a complaint in a proceeding brought in the right of a limited
liability company must allege with particularity the demand made, if any, to
obtain action by the managers or the members who would otherwise have the
authority to cause the limited liability company to sue in its own right, and
either that the demand was refused or ignored or the reason why a demand was
not made. Whether or not a demand for action was made, if the limited liability
company commences an investigation of the charges made in the demand or
complaint, the court may stay any proceeding until the investigation is
completed. 

       (3) A proceeding
commenced under this section may not be discontinued or settled without the
court’s approval. If the court determines that a proposed discontinuance or
settlement will substantially affect the interest of the members or a class of
members, the court shall direct that notice be given to the members affected. [1993
c.173 §95] 

   

 STATE TAXATION 

   

       63.810
Taxation of limited liability companies and members. For purposes of ORS 320.005 to
320.150 and ORS chapters 305, 306, 307, 308, 308A, 309, 310, 311, 312, 314,
315, 316, 317, 318, 319, 321, 323 and 324, a limited liability company formed
under this chapter or qualified to do business in this state as a foreign
limited liability company shall be classified in the same manner as it is
classified for federal income tax purposes. For purposes of ORS 320.005 to
320.150 and ORS chapters 305, 306, 307, 308, 308A, 309, 310, 311, 312, 314,
315, 316, 317, 318, 319, 321, 323 and 324, a member or an assignee of a member
of a limited liability company formed under this chapter or qualified to do
business in this state as a foreign limited liability company shall have the
same status as the member or assignee of a member has for federal income tax
purposes. [1993 c.173 §101; 1997 c.646 §13; 1999 c.557 §1; 2009 c.33 §1] 

   

 MISCELLANEOUS 

   

       63.951 Short
title. This
chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Oregon Limited Liability
Company Act.” [1993 c.173 §1] 

   

       63.955
Interstate application. 
A limited liability company organized and existing under this chapter may
conduct its business, carry on its operations and have and exercise the powers
granted by this chapter in any state, territory, district or possession of the
United States, or in any foreign country. [1993 c.173 §104] 

   

       63.960
Applicability of chapter to practice of dentistry. Nothing in this chapter is
intended to supersede the provisions of ORS 679.020. [1997 c.774 §29] 

   

       63.965
Reservation of power to amend or repeal; effect of amendment or repeal. (1) All or part of this chapter
may be amended or repealed at any time and all domestic and foreign limited
liability companies subject to this chapter shall be governed by the amendment
or repeal. 

       (2) The amendment
or repeal of a statute in this chapter does not affect: 

       (a) The operation
of the statute or any action taken under the statute before its amendment or
repeal. 

       (b) Any
ratification, right, remedy, privilege, obligation or liability acquired,
accrued or incurred under the statute before its amendment or repeal. 

       (c) Any violation
of the statute, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred because of
the violation, before its amendment or repeal. 

       (d) Any
proceeding, reorganization or dissolution commenced under the statute before
its amendment or repeal. The proceeding, reorganization or dissolution may be
completed in accordance with the statute as if it had not been amended or
repealed. [2001 c.315 §50] 

   

 PENALTY 

   

       63.990 Penalty
for signing false document. 
(1) A person commits the crime of signing a false document for filing if the
person: 

       (a) Knows the
document is false in any material respect; and 

       (b) Signs the
document with an intent that the document be delivered to the office of the
Secretary of State for filing under this chapter. 

       (2) Signing a
false document for filing is a Class A misdemeanor. [1993 c.173 §102; 2013
c.158 §26] 

   

       63.992
Liability for certain actions in connection with operation of shell entity;
actions as false claim; enforcement by civil action. (1) A member, manager, employee or
agent of a shell entity is liable for damages to a person that suffers an
ascertainable loss of money or property as a result of the member, manager,
employee or agent: 

       (a) Making,
issuing, delivering or publishing, or participating in making, issuing,
delivering or publishing, a prospectus, report, circular, certificate,
financial statement, balance sheet, public notice or document concerning the
shell entity or the shell entity’s shares, assets, liabilities, capital,
dividends, earnings, accounts or business operations that the member, manager,
employee or agent knows is false in any material respect; 

       (b) Making an
entry or causing another person to make an entry in a shell entity’s books,
records, minutes or accounts that the member, manager, employee or agent knows
is false in any material respect; or 

       (c) Removing,
erasing, altering or canceling, or causing another person to remove, erase,
alter or cancel, an entry in a shell entity’s books, records, minutes or
accounts if by means of the removal, erasure, alteration or cancellation the
member, manager, employee or agent intends to deceive another person. 

       (2) A member,
manager, employee or agent of a shell entity that engages in any of the actions
described in subsection (1) of this section in a submission to, or an
interaction with, a public agency, as defined in ORS 180.750, makes a false
claim and is subject to a civil action as provided in ORS 180.750 to 180.785. [2017
c.705 §6] 

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
