 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 


 Chapter
77 — Warehouse Receipts, Bills of Lading and Other Documents of Title 

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

   

 DOCUMENTS OF TITLE 

   

 COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONS 

   

 GENERAL PROVISIONS 

   

 77.1010     Short title 

   

 77.1020     Definitions and index
of definitions 

   

 77.1030     Relation of chapter to
treaty or statute 

   

 77.1040     Negotiable and
nonnegotiable document of title 

   

 77.1050     Reissuance in
alternative medium 

   

 77.1060     Control of electronic
document of title 

   

 WAREHOUSE RECEIPTS: SPECIAL
PROVISIONS 

   

 77.2010     Person that may issue a
warehouse receipt; storage under bond 

   

 77.2020     Form of warehouse
receipt; effect of omission 

   

 77.2030     Liability for
nonreceipt or misdescription 

   

 77.2040     Duty of care;
contractual limitation of warehouse’s liability 

   

 77.2050     Title under warehouse
receipt defeated in certain cases 

   

 77.2060     Termination of storage
at warehouse’s option 

   

 77.2070     Goods must be kept
separate; fungible goods 

   

 77.2080     Altered warehouse
receipts 

   

 77.2090     Lien of warehouse 

   

 77.2100     Enforcement of
warehouse’s lien 

   

 BILLS OF LADING: SPECIAL PROVISIONS 

   

 77.3010     Liability for
nonreceipt or misdescription; said to contain; shipper’s weight, load and
count; improper handling 

   

 77.3020     Through bills of lading
and similar documents of title 

   

 77.3030     Diversion;
reconsignment; change of instructions 

   

 77.3040     Bills of lading in a
set 

   

 77.3050     Destination bills 

   

 77.3060     Altered bills of lading 

   

 77.3070     Lien of carrier 

   

 77.3080     Enforcement of carrier’s
lien 

   

 77.3090     Duty of care;
contractual limitation of carrier’s liability 

   

 WAREHOUSE RECEIPTS AND BILLS OF
LADING: GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 

   

 77.4010     Irregularities in issue
of receipt or bill or conduct of issuer 

   

 77.4020     Duplicate document of
title; overissue 

   

 77.4030     Obligation of bailee to
deliver; excuse 

   

 77.4040     No liability for good
faith delivery pursuant to document of title 

   

 WAREHOUSE RECEIPTS AND BILLS OF
LADING: NEGOTIATION AND TRANSFER 

   

 77.5010     Form of negotiation and
requirements of due negotiation 

   

 77.5020     Rights acquired by due
negotiation 

   

 77.5030     Document of title to
goods defeated in certain cases 

   

 77.5040     Rights acquired in the
absence of due negotiation; effect of diversion; stoppage of delivery 

   

 77.5050     Indorser not a
guarantor for other parties 

   

 77.5060     Delivery without
indorsement; right to compel indorsement 

   

 77.5070     Warranties on
negotiation or delivery of document of title 

   

 77.5080     Warranties of
collecting bank as to documents 

   

 77.5090     Adequate compliance
with commercial contract 

   

 WAREHOUSE RECEIPTS AND BILLS OF
LADING: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 

   

 77.6010     Lost, stolen or
destroyed documents of title 

   

 77.6020     Judicial process
against goods covered by negotiable document of title 

   

 77.6030     Conflicting claims;
interpleader 

   

 GENERAL PROVISIONS 

   

       77.1010 Short
title. This
chapter may be cited as Uniform Commercial Code–Documents of Title. [1961 c.762
§77.1010] 

   

       77.1020
Definitions and index of definitions. 
(1) In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires: 

       (a) “Bailee”
means a person that by a warehouse receipt, bill of lading or other document of
title acknowledges possession of goods and contracts to deliver them. 

       (b) “Carrier”
means a person that issues a bill of lading. 

       (c) “Consignee”
means a person named in a bill of lading to which or to whose order the bill
promises delivery. 

       (d) “Consignor”
means a person named in a bill of lading as the person from which the goods
have been received for shipment. 

       (e) “Delivery
order” means a record that contains an order to deliver goods directed to a
warehouse, carrier or other person that in the ordinary course of business
issues warehouse receipts or bills of lading. 

       (f) “Goods” means
all things that are treated as movable for the purposes of a contract for
storage or transportation. 

       (g) “Issuer”
means a bailee that issues a document of title or, in the case of an unaccepted
delivery order, the person that orders the possessor of goods to deliver. The
term includes a person for which an agent or employee purports to act in
issuing a document if the agent or employee has real or apparent authority to
issue documents, even if the issuer did not receive any goods, the goods were
misdescribed, or in any other respect the agent or employee violated the issuer’s
instructions. 

       (h) “Person
entitled under the document” means the holder, in the case of a negotiable
document of title, or the person to which delivery of the goods is to be made
by the terms of, or pursuant to instructions in a record under, a nonnegotiable
document of title. 

       (i) “Shipper”
means a person that enters into a contract of transportation with a carrier. 

       (j) “Warehouse”
means a person engaged in the business of storing goods for hire. 

       (2) Definitions
in other chapters applying to this chapter and the sections in which they
appear are: 

       (a) “Contract for
sale,” as defined in ORS 72.1060. 

       (b) “Lessee in
the ordinary course of business,” as defined in ORS 72A.1030. 

       (c) “Receipt” of
goods, as defined in ORS 72.1030. 

       (3) In addition,
ORS chapter 71 contains general definitions and principles of construction and
interpretation applicable throughout this chapter. [1961 c.726 §77.1020; 2009
c.181 §50; 2025 c.33 §37] 

   

       77.1030
Relation of chapter to treaty or statute. (1) This chapter is subject to any treaty or statute
of the United States or regulatory statute of this state to the extent the
treaty, statute or regulatory statute is applicable. 

       (2) This chapter
does not modify or repeal any law prescribing the form or content of a document
of title or the services or facilities to be afforded by a bailee, or otherwise
regulating a bailee’s business in respects not specifically treated in this
chapter. However, violation of such a law does not affect the status of a
document of title that otherwise is within the definition of a document of
title. 

       (3) This chapter
modifies, limits and supersedes the federal Electronic Signatures in Global and
National Commerce Act, 15 U.S.C. 7001 et seq., except that nothing in this
chapter modifies, limits or supercedes 7001(c) of that Act or authorizes
electronic delivery of any of the notices described in section 7003(b) of that
Act. 

       (4) To the extent
there is a conflict between the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act and this
chapter, this chapter governs. [1961 c.726 §77.1030; 2009 c.181 §51] 

   

       77.1040
Negotiable and nonnegotiable document of title. (1) Except as otherwise provided
in subsection (3) of this section, a document of title is negotiable if by its
terms the goods are to be delivered to bearer or to the order of a named
person. 

       (2) A document of
title other than one described in subsection (1) of this section is
nonnegotiable. A bill of lading that states that the goods are consigned to a
named person is not made negotiable by a provision that the goods are to be
delivered only against an order in a record signed by the same or another named
person. 

       (3) A document of
title is nonnegotiable if, at the time it is issued, the document has a
conspicuous legend, however expressed, that it is nonnegotiable. [1961 c.726 §77.1040;
2009 c.181 §52] 

   

       77.1050
Reissuance in alternative medium. 
(1) Upon request of a person entitled under an electronic document of title,
the issuer of the electronic document may issue a tangible document of title as
a substitute for the electronic document if: 

       (a) The person
entitled under the electronic document surrenders control of the document to
the issuer; and 

       (b) The tangible
document when issued contains a statement that it is issued in substitution for
the electronic document. 

       (2) Upon issuance
of a tangible document of title in substitution for an electronic document of
title in accordance with subsection (1) of this section: 

       (a) The
electronic document ceases to have any effect or validity; and 

       (b) The person
that procured issuance of the tangible document warrants to all subsequent
persons entitled under the tangible document that the warrantor was a person
entitled under the electronic document when the warrantor surrendered control
of the electronic document to the issuer. 

       (3) Upon request
of a person entitled under a tangible document of title, the issuer of the
tangible document may issue an electronic document of title as a substitute for
the tangible document if: 

       (a) The person
entitled under the tangible document surrenders possession of the document to
the issuer; and 

       (b) The
electronic document when issued contains a statement that it is issued in
substitution for the tangible document. 

       (4) Upon issuance
of an electronic document of title in substitution for a tangible document of
title in accordance with subsection (3) of this section: 

       (a) The tangible
document ceases to have any effect or validity; and 

       (b) The person
that procured issuance of the electronic document warrants to all subsequent
persons entitled under the electronic document that the warrantor was a person
entitled under the tangible document when the warrantor surrendered possession
of the tangible document to the issuer. [1961 c.726 §77.1050; 2009 c.181 §53] 

   

       77.1060
Control of electronic document of title. (1) A person has control of an electronic document of
title if a system employed for evidencing the transfer of interests in the
electronic document reliably establishes that person as the person to which the
electronic document was issued or transferred. 

       (2) A system satisfies
subsection (1) of this section, and a person has control of an electronic
document of title, if the document is created, stored and transferred in a
manner that: 

       (a) A single
authoritative copy of the document exists which is unique, identifiable and,
except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this subsection,
unalterable; 

       (b) The
authoritative copy identifies the person asserting control as: 

       (A) The person to
which the document was issued; or 

       (B) If the
authoritative copy indicates that the document has been transferred, the person
to which the document was most recently transferred; 

       (c) The
authoritative copy is communicated to and maintained by the person asserting
control or a designated custodian; 

       (d) Copies or
amendments that add or change an identified transferee of the authoritative
copy can be made only with the consent of the person asserting control; 

       (e) Each copy of
the authoritative copy and any copy of a copy is readily identifiable as a copy
that is not the authoritative copy; and 

       (f) Any amendment
of the authoritative copy is readily identifiable as authorized or
unauthorized. 

       (3) A system
satisfies subsection (1) of this section, and a person has control of an
electronic document of title, if an authoritative electronic copy of the
document, a record attached to or logically associated with the electronic copy
or a system in which the electronic copy is recorded: 

       (a) Enables the
person readily to identify each electronic copy as either an authoritative copy
or a nonauthoritative copy; 

       (b) Enables the
person readily to identify itself in any way, including by name, identifying
number, cryptographic key, office or account number, as the person to which
each authoritative electronic copy was issued or transferred; and 

       (c) Gives the
person exclusive power, subject to subsection (4) of this section, to: 

       (A) Prevent
others from adding or changing the person to which each authoritative
electronic copy has been issued or transferred; and 

       (B) Transfer
control of each authoritative electronic copy. 

       (4) Subject to
subsection (5) of this section, a power is exclusive under subsection (3)(c) of
this section even if: 

       (a) The
authoritative electronic copy, a record attached to or logically associated
with the authoritative electronic copy, or a system in which the authoritative
electronic copy is recorded limits the use of the document of title or has a
protocol that is programmed to cause a change, including a transfer or loss of
control; or 

       (b) The power is
shared with another person. 

       (5) A power of a
person is not shared with another person under subsection (4)(b) of this
section and the person’s power is not exclusive if: 

       (a) The person
can exercise the power only if the power also is exercised by the other person;
and 

       (b) The other
person: 

       (A) Can exercise
the power without exercise of the power by the person; or 

       (B) Is the
transferor to the person of an interest in the document of title. 

       (6) If a person
has the powers specified in subsection (3)(c) of this section, the powers are
presumed to be exclusive. 

       (7) A person has
control of an electronic document of title if another person, other than the
transferor to the person of an interest in the document: 

       (a) Has control
of the document and acknowledges that it has control on behalf of the person;
or 

       (b) Obtains
control of the document after having acknowledged that it will obtain control
of the document on behalf of the person. 

       (8) A person that
has control under this section is not required to acknowledge that it has
control on behalf of another person. 

       (9) If a person
acknowledges that it has or will obtain control on behalf of another person,
unless the person otherwise agrees or law other than ORS chapter 77 or 79A
otherwise provides, the person does not owe any duty to the other person and is
not required to confirm the acknowledgment to any other person. [2009 c.181 §54;
2025 c.33 §38] 

   

       Note: 77.1060 was enacted into law by
the Legislative Assembly but was not added to or made a part of ORS chapter 77
or any series therein by legislative action. See Preface to Oregon Revised
Statutes for further explanation. 

   

 WAREHOUSE RECEIPTS: SPECIAL
PROVISIONS 

   

       77.2010 Person
that may issue a warehouse receipt; storage under bond. (1) A warehouse receipt may be
issued by any warehouse. 

       (2) If goods,
including distilled spirits and agricultural commodities, are stored under a
statute requiring a bond against withdrawal or a license for the issuance of
receipts in the nature of warehouse receipts, a receipt issued for the goods is
deemed to be a warehouse receipt even if issued by a person that is the owner
of the goods and is not a warehouse. [1961 c.726 §77.2010; 2009 c.181 §55] 

   

       77.2020 Form
of warehouse receipt; effect of omission. (1) A warehouse receipt need not be in any particular
form. 

       (2) Unless a
warehouse receipt provides for each of the following, the warehouse is liable
for damages caused to a person injured by its omission: 

       (a) A statement
of the location of the warehouse facility where the goods are stored; 

       (b) The date of
issue of the receipt; 

       (c) The unique
identification code of the receipt; 

       (d) A statement
whether the goods received will be delivered to the bearer, to a named person,
or to a named person or its order; 

       (e) The rate of
storage and handling charges, unless goods are stored under a field warehousing
arrangement, in which case a statement of that fact is sufficient on a
nonnegotiable receipt; 

       (f) A description
of the goods or the packages containing them; 

       (g) The signature
of the warehouse or its agent; 

       (h) If the
receipt is issued for goods that the warehouse owns, either solely, jointly or
in common with others, a statement of the fact of that ownership; and 

       (i) A statement
of the amount of advances made and of liabilities incurred for which the
warehouse claims a lien or security interest, unless the precise amount of
advances made or of liabilities incurred, at the time of the issue of the
receipt, is unknown to the warehouse or to its agent that issued the receipt,
in which case a statement of the fact that advances have been made or
liabilities incurred and the purpose of the advances or liabilities is
sufficient. 

       (3) A warehouse
may insert in its receipt any terms that are not contrary to the Uniform
Commercial Code and do not impair its obligation of delivery under ORS 77.4030
or its duty of care under ORS 77.2040. Any contrary provision is ineffective. [1961
c.726 §77.2020; 2009 c.181 §56] 

   

       77.2030
Liability for nonreceipt or misdescription. A party to or purchaser for value in good faith of a
document of title, other than a bill of lading, that relies upon the
description of the goods in the document may recover from the issuer damages
caused by the nonreceipt or misdescription of the goods, except to the extent
that: 

       (1) The document
conspicuously indicates that the issuer does not know whether all or part of
the goods in fact were received or conform to the description, such as a case
in which the description is in terms of marks or labels or kind, quantity or
condition, or the receipt or description is qualified by “contents, condition
and quality unknown,” “said to contain” or words of similar import, if the
indication is true; or 

       (2) The party or
purchaser otherwise has notice of the nonreceipt or misdescription. [1961 c.726
§77.2030; 2009 c.181 §57] 

   

       77.2040 Duty
of care; contractual limitation of warehouse’s liability. (1) A warehouse is liable for
damages for loss of or injury to the goods caused by its failure to exercise
care with regard to the goods that a reasonably careful person would exercise
under similar circumstances. Unless otherwise agreed, the warehouse is not
liable for damages that could not have been avoided by the exercise of that
care. 

       (2) Damages may
be limited by a term in the warehouse receipt or storage agreement limiting the
amount of liability in case of loss or damage beyond which the warehouse is not
liable. Such a limitation is not effective with respect to the warehouse’s
liability for conversion to its own use. On request of the bailor in a record
at the time of signing the storage agreement or within a reasonable time after
receipt of the warehouse receipt, the warehouse’s liability may be increased on
part or all of the goods covered by the storage agreement or warehouse receipt.
In this event, increased rates may be charged based on an increased valuation
of the goods. 

       (3) Reasonable
provisions as to the time and manner of presenting claims and commencing
actions based on the bailment may be included in the warehouse receipt or
storage agreement. 

       (4) This section
does not modify or repeal any existing law or rule of law that imposes a higher
responsibility upon the warehouse or invalidates a contractual limitation that
would be permissible under this chapter. [1961 c.726 §77.2040; 2009 c.181 §58] 

   

       77.2050 Title
under warehouse receipt defeated in certain cases. A buyer in ordinary course of
business of fungible goods sold and delivered by a warehouse that is also in
the business of buying and selling such goods takes the goods free of any claim
under a warehouse receipt even if the receipt is negotiable and has been duly
negotiated. [1961 c.726 §77.2050; 2009 c.181 §59] 

   

       77.2060
Termination of storage at warehouse’s option. (1) A warehouse, by giving notice to the person on
whose account the goods are held and any other person known to claim an
interest in the goods, may require payment of any charges and removal of the
goods from the warehouse at the termination of the period of storage fixed by
the document of title, or, if a period is not fixed, within a stated period not
less than 30 days after the warehouse gives notice. If the goods are not
removed before the date specified in the notice, the warehouse may sell them
pursuant to ORS 77.2100. 

       (2) If a
warehouse in good faith believes that goods are about to deteriorate or decline
in value to less than the amount of its lien within the time provided in
subsection (1) of this section and ORS 77.2100, the warehouse may specify in
the notice given under subsection (1) of this section any reasonable shorter
time for removal of the goods and, if the goods are not removed, may sell them
at public sale held not less than one week after a single advertisement or
posting. 

       (3) If as a
result of a quality or condition of the goods of which the warehouse did not
have notice at the time of deposit the goods are a hazard to other property,
the warehouse facilities or other persons, the warehouse may sell the goods at
public or private sale without advertisement or posting on reasonable
notification to all persons known to claim an interest in the goods. If the
warehouse, after a reasonable effort, is unable to sell the goods it may
dispose of them in any lawful manner and does not incur liability by reason of
that disposition. 

       (4) A warehouse
shall deliver the goods to any person entitled to them under this chapter upon
due demand made at any time before sale or other disposition under this
section. 

       (5) A warehouse
may satisfy its lien from the proceeds of any sale or disposition under this
section but shall hold the balance for delivery on the demand of any person to
which the warehouse would have been bound to deliver the goods. [1961 c.726 §77.2060;
2009 c.181 §60] 

   

       77.2070 Goods
must be kept separate; fungible goods. 
(1) Unless the warehouse receipt provides otherwise, a warehouse shall keep
separate the goods covered by each receipt so as to permit at all times
identification and delivery of those goods. However, different lots of fungible
goods may be commingled. 

       (2) If different
lots of fungible goods are commingled, the goods are owned in common by the
persons entitled thereto and the warehouse is severally liable to each owner
for that owner’s share. If, because of overissue, a mass of fungible goods is
insufficient to meet all the receipts the warehouse has issued against it, the
persons entitled include all holders to which overissued receipts have been
duly negotiated. [1961 c.726 §77.2070; 2009 c.181 §61] 

   

       77.2080
Altered warehouse receipts. 
If a blank in a negotiable tangible warehouse receipt has been filled in
without authority, a good-faith purchaser for value and without notice of the
lack of authority may treat the insertion as authorized. Any other unauthorized
alteration leaves any tangible or electronic warehouse receipt enforceable
against the issuer according to its original tenor. [1961 c.726 §77.2080; 2009
c.181 §62] 

   

       77.2090 Lien
of warehouse. (1)
A warehouse has a lien against the bailor on the goods covered by a warehouse
receipt or storage agreement or on the proceeds thereof in its possession for
charges for storage or transportation, including demurrage and terminal
charges, insurance, labor or other charges, present or future, in relation to
the goods, and for expenses necessary for preservation of the goods or
reasonably incurred in their sale pursuant to law. If the person on whose
account the goods are held is liable for similar charges or expenses in
relation to other goods whenever deposited and it is stated in the warehouse
receipt or storage agreement that a lien is claimed for charges and expenses in
relation to other goods, the warehouse also has a lien against the goods
covered by the warehouse receipt or storage agreement or on the proceeds
thereof in its possession for those charges and expenses whether or not the
other goods have been delivered by the warehouse. However, as against a person
to which a negotiable warehouse receipt is duly negotiated, a warehouse’s lien
is limited to charges in an amount or at a rate specified in the warehouse
receipt or, if no charges are so specified, to a reasonable charge for storage
of the specific goods covered by the receipt subsequent to the date of the
receipt. 

       (2) The warehouse
may also reserve a security interest against the bailor for the maximum amount
specified on the receipt for charges other than those specified in subsection
(1) of this section, such as for money advanced and interest. The security interest
is governed by ORS chapter 79A. 

       (3) A warehouse’s
lien for charges and expenses under subsection (1) of this section or a
security interest under subsection (2) of this section is also effective
against any person that so entrusted the bailor with possession of the goods
that a pledge of them by the bailor to a good-faith purchaser for value would
have been valid. However, the lien or security interest is not effective
against a person that before issuance of a document of title had a legal
interest or a perfected security interest in the goods and that did not: 

       (a) Deliver or
entrust the goods or any document of title covering the goods to the bailor or
the bailor’s nominee with: 

       (A) Actual or
apparent authority to ship, store or sell; 

       (B) Power to
obtain delivery under ORS 77.4030; or 

       (C) Power of
disposition under ORS 72.4030, 72A.3040 (2), 72A.3050 (2), 79A.3200 or 79A.3210
(3) or other statute or rule of law; or 

       (b) Acquiesce in
the procurement by the bailor or its nominee of any document. 

       (4) A warehouse’s
lien on household goods for charges and expenses in relation to the goods under
subsection (1) of this section is also effective against all persons if the
depositor was the legal possessor of the goods at the time of deposit. In this
subsection, “household goods” means furniture, furnishings or personal effects
used by the depositor in a dwelling. 

       (5) A warehouse
loses its lien on any goods that it voluntarily delivers or unjustifiably
refuses to deliver. [1961 c.726 §77.2090; 1971 c.370 §1; 2001 c.445 §149; 2009
c.181 §63] 

   

       77.2100 Enforcement
of warehouse’s lien. 
(1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (2) of this section, a warehouse’s
lien may be enforced by public or private sale of the goods, in bulk or in
packages, at any time or place and on any terms that are commercially
reasonable, after notifying all persons known to claim an interest in the
goods. The notification must include a statement of the amount due, the nature
of the proposed sale and the time and place of any public sale. The fact that a
better price could have been obtained by a sale at a different time or in a
method different from that selected by the warehouse is not of itself
sufficient to establish that the sale was not made in a commercially reasonable
manner. The warehouse sells in a commercially reasonable manner if the
warehouse sells the goods in the usual manner in any recognized market
therefor, sells at the price current in that market at the time of sale or
otherwise sells in conformity with commercially reasonable practices among
dealers in the type of goods sold. A sale of more goods than apparently
necessary to be offered to ensure satisfaction of the obligation is not
commercially reasonable except in cases covered by the preceding sentence. 

       (2) A warehouse
may enforce its lien on goods other than goods stored by a merchant in the
course of its business only if the following requirements are satisfied: 

       (a) All persons
known to claim an interest in the goods must be notified. 

       (b) The
notification must include an itemized statement of the claim, a description of
the goods subject to the lien, a demand for payment within a specified time not
less than 10 days after receipt of the notification, and a conspicuous
statement that unless the claim is paid within that time the goods will be
advertised for sale and sold by auction at a specified time and place. 

       (c) The sale must
conform to the terms of the notification. 

       (d) The sale must
be held at the nearest suitable place to where the goods are held or stored. 

       (e) After the
expiration of the time given in the notification, an advertisement of the sale
must be published once a week for two weeks consecutively in a newspaper of
general circulation where the sale is to be held. The advertisement must
include a description of the goods, the name of the person on whose account the
goods are being held, and the time and place of the sale. The sale must take
place at least 15 days after the first publication. If there is no newspaper of
general circulation where the sale is to be held, the advertisement must be
posted at least 10 days before the sale in not fewer than six conspicuous
places in the neighborhood of the proposed sale. 

       (3) Before any
sale pursuant to this section any person claiming a right in the goods may pay
the amount necessary to satisfy the lien and the reasonable expenses incurred
in complying with this section. In that event the goods may not be sold but
must be retained by the warehouse subject to the terms of the receipt and this
chapter. 

       (4) A warehouse
may buy at any public sale held pursuant to this section. 

       (5) A purchaser
in good faith of goods sold to enforce a warehouse’s lien takes the goods free
of any rights of persons against which the lien was valid, despite the
warehouse’s noncompliance with this section. 

       (6) A warehouse
may satisfy its lien from the proceeds of any sale pursuant to this section but
shall hold the balance, if any, for delivery on demand to any person to which
the warehouse would have been bound to deliver the goods. 

       (7) The rights
provided by this section are in addition to all other rights allowed by law to
a creditor against a debtor. 

       (8) If a lien is
on goods stored by a merchant in the course of the merchant’s business, the
lien may be enforced in accordance with subsection (1) or (2) of this section. 

       (9) A warehouse
is liable for damages caused by failure to comply with the requirements for
sale under this section and in case of willful violation is liable for
conversion. [1961 c.726 §77.2100; 2009 c.181 §64] 

   

 BILLS OF LADING: SPECIAL
PROVISIONS 

   

       77.3010
Liability for nonreceipt or misdescription; said to contain; shipper’s weight,
load and count; improper handling. 
(1) A consignee of a nonnegotiable bill of lading which has given value in good
faith or a holder to which a negotiable bill has been duly negotiated relying
upon the description of the goods in the bill or upon the date shown in the
bill, may recover from the issuer damages caused by the misdating of the bill
or the nonreceipt or misdescription of the goods, except to the extent that the
bill indicates that the issuer does not know whether any part or all of the
goods in fact were received or conform to the description, such as in a case in
which the description is in terms of marks or labels or kind, quantity or
condition or the receipt or description is qualified by “contents or condition
of contents of packages unknown,” “said to contain,” “shipper’s weight, load
and count” or words of similar import, if that indication is true. 

       (2) If goods are
loaded by the issuer of a bill of lading: 

       (a) The issuer
shall count the packages of goods if shipped in packages and ascertain the kind
and quantity if shipped in bulk; and 

       (b) Words such as
“shipper’s weight, load and count” or words of similar import indicating that
the description was made by the shipper are ineffective except as to goods
concealed in packages. 

       (3) If bulk goods
are loaded by a shipper that makes available to the issuer of a bill of lading
adequate facilities for weighing those goods, the issuer shall ascertain the
kind and quantity within a reasonable time after receiving the shipper’s
request in a record to do so. In that case, “shipper’s weight” or other words
of similar import are ineffective. 

       (4) The issuer of
a bill of lading, by including in the bill the words “shipper’s weight, load
and count” or words of similar import, may indicate that the goods were loaded
by the shipper, and if that statement is true, the issuer is not liable for
damages caused by the improper loading. However, omission of such words does
not imply liability for damages caused by improper loading. 

       (5) A shipper
guarantees to an issuer the accuracy at the time of shipment of the
description, marks, labels, number, kind, quantity, condition and weight, as
furnished by the shipper. The shipper shall indemnify the issuer against damage
caused by inaccuracies in those particulars. This right of indemnity does not
limit the issuer’s responsibility or liability under the contract of carriage
to any person other than the shipper. [1961 c.726 §77.3010; 2009 c.181 §65] 

   

       77.3020
Through bills of lading and similar documents of title. (1) The issuer of a through bill
of lading or other document of title embodying an undertaking to be performed
in part by a person acting as its agent or by a performing carrier is liable to
any person entitled to recover on the bill or other document for any breach by
the other person or the performing carrier of its obligation under the bill or
other document. However, to the extent that the bill or other document covers
an undertaking to be performed overseas or in territory not contiguous to the
continental United States or an undertaking including matters other than
transportation, this liability for breach by the other person or the performing
carrier may be varied by agreement of the parties. 

       (2) If goods
covered by a through bill of lading or other document of title embodying an
undertaking to be performed in part by a person other than the issuer are
received by that person, the person is subject with respect to its own
performance while the goods are in its possession to the obligation of the
issuer. The person’s obligation is discharged by delivery of the goods to
another person pursuant to the bill or other document and does not include
liability for breach by any other person or by the issuer. 

       (3) The issuer of
a through bill of lading or other document of title described in subsection (1)
of this section is entitled to recover from the performing carrier, or other
person in possession of the goods when the breach of the obligation under the bill
or other document occurred: 

       (a) The amount it
may be required to pay to any person entitled to recover on the bill or other
document for the breach, as may be evidenced by any receipt, judgment or
transcript of judgment; and 

       (b) The amount of
any expense reasonably incurred by the issuer in defending any action commenced
by any person entitled to recover on the bill or other document for the breach.
[1961 c.726 §77.3020; 2009 c.181 §66] 

   

       77.3030
Diversion; reconsignment; change of instructions. (1) Unless the bill of lading
otherwise provides, a carrier may deliver the goods to a person or destination
other than that stated in the bill or may otherwise dispose of the goods,
without liability for misdelivery, on instructions from: 

       (a) The holder of
a negotiable bill; 

       (b) The consignor
on a nonnegotiable bill, even if the consignee has given contrary instructions; 

       (c) The consignee
on a nonnegotiable bill in the absence of contrary instructions from the
consignor, if the goods have arrived at the billed destination or if the
consignee is in possession of the tangible bill or in control of the electronic
bill; or 

       (d) The consignee
on a nonnegotiable bill, if the consignee is entitled as against the consignor
to dispose of the goods. 

       (2) Unless
instructions described in subsection (1) of this section are included in a
negotiable bill of lading, a person to which the bill is duly negotiated may
hold the bailee according to the original terms. [1961 c.726 §77.3030; 2009
c.181 §67] 

   

       77.3040 Bills
of lading in a set. 
(1) Except as customary in international transportation, a tangible bill of
lading may not be issued in a set of parts. The issuer is liable for damages
caused by violation of this subsection. 

       (2) If a tangible
bill of lading is lawfully issued in a set of parts, each of which contains an
identification code and is expressed to be valid only if the goods have not
been delivered against any other part, the whole of the parts constitutes one
bill. 

       (3) If a tangible
negotiable bill of lading is lawfully issued in a set of parts and different
parts are negotiated to different persons, the title of the holder to which the
first due negotiation is made prevails as to both the document of title and the
goods even if any later holder may have received the goods from the carrier in
good faith and discharged the carrier’s obligation by surrendering its part. 

       (4) A person that
negotiates or transfers a single part of a tangible bill of lading issued in a
set is liable to holders of that part as if it were the whole set. 

       (5) The bailee
shall deliver in accordance with ORS 77.4010 to 77.4040 against the first
presented part of a tangible bill of lading lawfully issued in a set. Delivery
in this manner discharges the bailee’s obligation on the whole bill. [1961
c.726 §77.3040; 2009 c.181 §68] 

   

       77.3050
Destination bills. 
(1) Instead of issuing a bill of lading to the consignor at the place of
shipment a carrier at the request of the consignor may procure the bill to be
issued at destination or at any other place designated in the request. 

       (2) Upon request
of any person entitled as against a carrier to control the goods while in
transit and on surrender of possession or control of any outstanding bill of
lading or other receipt covering the goods, the issuer, subject to ORS 77.1050,
may procure a substitute bill to be issued at any place designated in the
request. [1961 c.726 §77.3050; 2009 c.181 §69] 

   

       77.3060
Altered bills of lading. 
An unauthorized alteration or filling in of a blank in a bill of lading leaves
the bill enforceable according to its original tenor. [1961 c.726 §77.3060] 

   

       77.3070 Lien
of carrier. (1) A
carrier has a lien on the goods covered by a bill of lading or on the proceeds
thereof in the carrier’s possession for charges after the date of the carrier’s
receipt of the goods for storage or transportation, including demurrage and
terminal charges, and for expenses necessary for preservation of the goods
incident to their transportation or reasonably incurred in their sale pursuant
to law. However, against a purchaser for value of a negotiable bill of lading,
a carrier’s lien is limited to charges stated in the bill or the applicable
tariffs or, if no charges are stated, a reasonable charge. 

       (2) A lien for
charges and expenses under subsection (1) of this section on goods that the
carrier was required by law to receive for transportation is effective against
the consignor or any person entitled to the goods unless the carrier had notice
that the consignor lacked authority to subject the goods to those charges and
expenses. Any other lien under subsection (1) of this section is effective
against the consignor and any person that permitted the bailor to have control
or possession of the goods unless the carrier had notice that the bailor lacked
authority. 

       (3) A carrier
loses its lien on any goods that it voluntarily delivers or unjustifiably
refuses to deliver. [1961 c.726 §77.3070; 2009 c.181 §70] 

   

       77.3080
Enforcement of carrier’s lien. 
(1) A carrier’s lien on goods may be enforced by public or private sale of the
goods, in bulk or in packages, at any time or place and on any terms that are
commercially reasonable, after notifying all persons known to claim an interest
in the goods. The notification must include a statement of the amount due, the
nature of the proposed sale and the time and place of any public sale. The fact
that a better price could have been obtained by a sale at a different time or
in a method different from that selected by the carrier is not of itself
sufficient to establish that the sale was not made in a commercially reasonable
manner. The carrier sells goods in a commercially reasonable manner if the
carrier sells the goods in the usual manner in any recognized market therefor,
sells at the price current in that market at the time of sale or otherwise
sells in conformity with commercially reasonable practices among dealers in the
type of goods sold. A sale of more goods than apparently necessary to be
offered to ensure satisfaction of the obligation is not commercially reasonable
except in cases covered by the preceding sentence. 

       (2) Before any
sale pursuant to this section any person claiming a right in the goods may pay
the amount necessary to satisfy the lien and the reasonable expenses incurred
in complying with this section. In that event, the goods may not be sold but
must be retained by the carrier subject to the terms of the bill of lading and
this chapter. 

       (3) A carrier may
buy at any public sale pursuant to this section. 

       (4) A purchaser
in good faith of goods sold to enforce a carrier’s lien takes the goods free of
any rights of persons against which the lien was valid, despite the carrier’s
noncompliance with this section. 

       (5) A carrier may
satisfy its lien from the proceeds of any sale pursuant to this section but
shall hold the balance, if any, for delivery on demand to any person to which
the carrier would have been bound to deliver the goods. 

       (6) The rights
provided by this section are in addition to all other rights allowed by law to
a creditor against a debtor. 

       (7) A carrier’s
lien may be enforced pursuant to either subsection (1) of this section or the
procedure set forth in ORS 77.2100 (2). 

       (8) A carrier is
liable for damages caused by failure to comply with the requirements for sale
under this section and in case of willful violation is liable for conversion. [1961
c.726 §77.3080; 2009 c.181 §71] 

   

       77.3090 Duty
of care; contractual limitation of carrier’s liability. (1) A carrier that issues a bill
of lading, whether negotiable or nonnegotiable, shall exercise the degree of
care in relation to the goods which a reasonably careful person would exercise
under similar circumstances. This subsection does not affect any statute,
regulation or rule of law that imposes liability upon a common carrier for
damages not caused by its negligence. 

       (2) Damages may
be limited by a term in the bill of lading or in a transportation agreement
that the carrier’s liability may not exceed a value stated in the bill or
transportation agreement if the carrier’s rates are dependent upon value and
the consignor is afforded an opportunity to declare a higher value and the
consignor is advised of the opportunity. However, such a limitation is not
effective with respect to the carrier’s liability for conversion to its own
use. 

       (3) Reasonable
provisions as to the time and manner of presenting claims and commencing
actions based on the shipment may be included in a bill of lading or a
transportation agreement. [1961 c.726 §77.3090; 2009 c.181 §72] 

   

 WAREHOUSE RECEIPTS AND BILLS
OF LADING: GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 

   

       77.4010
Irregularities in issue of receipt or bill or conduct of issuer. The obligations imposed by this
chapter on an issuer apply to a document of title even if: 

       (1) The document
does not comply with the requirements of this chapter or of any other statute,
rule or regulation regarding its issuance, form or content; 

       (2) The issuer
violated laws regulating the conduct of its business; 

       (3) The goods
covered by the document were owned by the bailee when the document was issued;
or 

       (4) The person
issuing the document is not a warehouse but the document purports to be a
warehouse receipt. [1961 c.726 §77.4010; 2009 c.181 §73] 

   

       77.4020
Duplicate document of title; overissue. A duplicate or any other document of title purporting
to cover goods already represented by an outstanding document of the same
issuer does not confer any right in the goods, except as provided in the case
of tangible bills of lading in a set of parts, overissue of documents for
fungible goods, substitutes for lost, stolen or destroyed documents or
substitute documents issued pursuant to ORS 77.1050. The issuer is liable for
damages caused by its overissue or failure to identify a duplicate document by
conspicuous notation. [1961 c.726 §77.4020; 2009 c.181 §74] 

   

       77.4030
Obligation of bailee to deliver; excuse. (1) A bailee shall deliver the goods to a person
entitled under a document of title if the person complies with subsections (2)
and (3) of this section unless and to the extent that the bailee establishes
any of the following: 

       (a) Delivery of
the goods to a person whose receipt was rightful as against the claimant; 

       (b) Damage to or
delay, loss or destruction of the goods for which the bailee is not liable; 

       (c) Previous sale
or other disposition of the goods in lawful enforcement of a lien or on a
warehouse’s lawful termination of storage; 

       (d) The exercise
by a seller of its right to stop delivery pursuant to ORS 72.7050 or by a
lessor of its right to stop delivery pursuant to ORS 72A.5260; 

       (e) A diversion,
reconsignment or other disposition pursuant to ORS 77.3030; 

       (f) Release,
satisfaction or any other personal defense against the claimant; or 

       (g) Any other
lawful excuse. 

       (2) A person
claiming goods covered by a document of title shall satisfy the bailee’s lien
if the bailee so requests or if the bailee is prohibited by law from delivering
the goods until the charges are paid. 

       (3) Unless a
person claiming the goods is a person against which the document of title does
not confer a right under ORS 77.5030 (1): 

       (a) The person
claiming under the document shall surrender possession or control of any
outstanding negotiable document covering the goods for cancellation or
indication of partial deliveries; and 

       (b) The bailee
shall cancel the document or conspicuously indicate in the document the partial
delivery or the bailee is liable to any person to which the document is duly
negotiated. [1961 c.726 §77.4030; 2009 c.181 §75] 

   

       77.4040 No
liability for good faith delivery pursuant to document of title. A bailee that in good faith has
received goods and delivered or otherwise disposed of the goods according to
the terms of a document of title or pursuant to this chapter is not liable for
the goods even if: 

       (1) The person
from which the bailee received the goods did not have authority to procure the
document or to dispose of the goods; or 

       (2) The person to
which the bailee delivered the goods did not have authority to receive the
goods. [1961 c.726 §77.4040; 2009 c.181 §76] 

   

 WAREHOUSE RECEIPTS AND BILLS
OF LADING: NEGOTIATION AND TRANSFER 

   

       77.5010 Form
of negotiation and requirements of due negotiation. (1) The following rules apply to a
negotiable tangible document of title: 

       (a) If the
document’s original terms run to the order of a named person, the document is
negotiated by the named person’s indorsement and delivery. After the named
person’s indorsement in blank or to bearer, any person may negotiate the
document by delivery alone. 

       (b) If the
document’s original terms run to bearer, it is negotiated by delivery alone. 

       (c) If the
document’s original terms run to the order of a named person and the document
is delivered to the named person, the effect is the same as if the document had
been negotiated. 

       (d) Negotiation
of the document after it has been indorsed to a named person requires
indorsement by the named person and delivery. 

       (e) A document is
duly negotiated if it is negotiated in the manner stated in this subsection to
a holder that purchases it in good faith, without notice of any defense against
or claim to it on the part of any person, and for value, unless it is established
that the negotiation is not in the regular course of business or financing or
involves receiving the document in settlement or payment of a monetary
obligation. 

       (2) The following
rules apply to a negotiable electronic document of title: 

       (a) If the
document’s original terms run to the order of a named person or to bearer, the
document is negotiated by delivery of the document to another person.
Indorsement by the named person is not required to negotiate the document. 

       (b) If the
document’s original terms run to the order of a named person and the named
person has control of the document, the effect is the same as if the document
had been negotiated. 

       (c) A document is
duly negotiated if it is negotiated in the manner stated in this subsection to
a holder that purchases the document in good faith, without notice of any
defense against or claim to the document on the part of any person, and for
value, unless it is established that the negotiation is not in the regular
course of business or financing or involves taking delivery of the document in
settlement or payment of a monetary obligation. 

       (3) Indorsement
of a nonnegotiable document of title neither makes it negotiable nor adds to
the transferee’s rights. 

       (4) The naming in
a negotiable bill of lading of a person to be notified of the arrival of the
goods does not limit the negotiability of the bill or constitute notice to a
purchaser of the bill of any interest of that person in the goods. [1961 c.726 §77.5010;
2009 c.181 §77] 

   

       77.5020 Rights
acquired by due negotiation. 
(1) Subject to ORS 77.2050 and 77.5030, a holder to which a negotiable document
of title has been duly negotiated acquires thereby: 

       (a) Title to the
document; 

       (b) Title to the
goods; 

       (c) All rights
accruing under the law of agency or estoppel, including rights to goods
delivered to the bailee after the document was issued; and 

       (d) The direct
obligation of the issuer to hold or deliver the goods according to the terms of
the document free of any defense or claim by the issuer except those arising
under the terms of the document or under this chapter, but in the case of a
delivery order the bailee’s obligation accrues only upon the bailee’s
acceptance of the delivery order and the obligation acquired by the holder is
that the issuer and any indorser will procure the acceptance of the bailee. 

       (2) Subject to
ORS 77.5030, title and rights acquired by due negotiation are not defeated by
any stoppage of the goods represented by the document of title or by surrender
of the goods by the bailee and are not impaired even if: 

       (a) The due
negotiation or any prior due negotiation constituted a breach of duty; 

       (b) Any person
has been deprived of possession of a negotiable tangible document or control of
a negotiable electronic document by misrepresentation, fraud, accident,
mistake, duress, loss, theft or conversion; or 

       (c) A previous
sale or other transfer of the goods or document has been made to a third
person. [1961 c.726 §77.5020; 2009 c.181 §78] 

   

       77.5030
Document of title to goods defeated in certain cases. (1) A document of title confers no
right in goods against a person that before issuance of the document had a
legal interest or a perfected security interest in the goods and that did not: 

       (a) Deliver or
entrust the goods or any document of title covering the goods to the bailor or
the bailor’s nominee with: 

       (A) Actual or
apparent authority to ship, store or sell; 

       (B) Power to
obtain delivery under ORS 77.4030; or 

       (C) Power of
disposition under ORS 72.4030, 72A.3040 (2), 72A.3050 (2), 79A.3200 or 79A.3210
(3) or other statute or rule of law; or 

       (b) Acquiesce in
the procurement by the bailor or its nominee of any document. 

       (2) Title to
goods based upon an unaccepted delivery order is subject to the rights of any
person to which a negotiable warehouse receipt or bill of lading covering the
goods has been duly negotiated. That title may be defeated under ORS 77.5040 to
the same extent as the rights of the issuer or a transferee from the issuer. 

       (3) Title to
goods based upon a bill of lading issued to a freight forwarder is subject to
the rights of any person to which a bill issued by the freight forwarder is
duly negotiated. However, delivery by the carrier in accordance with ORS
77.4010 to 77.4040 pursuant to its own bill of lading discharges the carrier’s
obligation to deliver. [1961 c.726 §77.5030; 2001 c.445 §150; 2009 c.181 §79] 

   

       77.5040 Rights
acquired in the absence of due negotiation; effect of diversion; stoppage of
delivery. (1) A
transferee of a document of title, whether negotiable or nonnegotiable, to
which the document has been delivered but not duly negotiated, acquires the
title and rights that the document’s transferor had or had actual authority to
convey. 

       (2) In the case
of a transfer of a nonnegotiable document of title, until but not after the
bailee receives notice of the transfer, the rights of the transferee may be
defeated: 

       (a) By those
creditors of the transferor which could treat the transfer as void under ORS
72.4020 or 72A.3080; 

       (b) By a buyer
from the transferor in ordinary course of business if the bailee has delivered
the goods to the buyer or received notification of the buyer’s rights; 

       (c) By a lessee
from the transferor in ordinary course of business if the bailee has delivered
the goods to the lessee or received notification of the lessee’s rights; or 

       (d) As against
the bailee by good faith dealings of the bailee with the transferor. 

       (3) A diversion
or other change of shipping instructions by the consignor in a nonnegotiable
bill of lading which causes the bailee not to deliver the goods to the
consignee defeats the consignee’s title to the goods if the goods have been
delivered to a buyer in ordinary course of business or lessee in ordinary
course of business and, in any event, defeats the consignee’s rights against
the bailee. 

       (4) Delivery of
the goods pursuant to a nonnegotiable document of title may be stopped by a
seller under ORS 72.7050 or a lessor under ORS 72A.5260 subject to the
requirements of due notification in those sections. A bailee that honors the
seller’s or lessor’s instructions is entitled to be indemnified by the seller
or lessor against any resulting loss or expense. [1961 c.726 §77.5040; 2009
c.181 §80] 

   

       77.5050
Indorser not a guarantor for other parties. The indorsement of a tangible document of title
issued by a bailee does not make the indorser liable for any default by the
bailee or by previous indorsers. [1961 c.726 §77.5050; 2009 c.181 §81] 

   

       77.5060
Delivery without indorsement; right to compel indorsement. The transferee of a negotiable
tangible document of title has a specifically enforceable right to have the
document’s transferor supply any necessary indorsement, but the transfer
becomes a negotiation only as of the time the indorsement is supplied. [1961
c.726 §77.5060; 2009 c.181 §82] 

   

       77.5070
Warranties on negotiation or delivery of document of title. If a person negotiates or delivers
a document of title for value, otherwise than as a mere intermediary under ORS
77.5080, unless otherwise agreed, the transferor, in addition to any warranty
made in selling or leasing the goods, warrants to the immediate purchaser only
that: 

       (1) The document
is genuine; 

       (2) The
transferor does not have knowledge of any fact that would impair the document’s
validity or worth; and 

       (3) The
negotiation or delivery is rightful and fully effective with respect to the
title to the document and the goods it represents. [1961 c.726 §77.5070; 2009
c.181 §83] 

   

       77.5080
Warranties of collecting bank as to documents. A collecting bank or other
intermediary known to be entrusted with documents of title on behalf of another
or with collection of a draft or other claim against delivery of documents
warrants by the delivery of the documents only its own good faith and authority
even if the collecting bank or other intermediary has purchased or made
advances against the claim or draft to be collected. [1961 c.726 §77.5080; 2009
c.181 §84] 

   

       77.5090
Adequate compliance with commercial contract. Whether a document of title is adequate to fulfill
the obligations of a contract for sale, a contract for lease or the conditions
of a letter of credit is determined by ORS chapter 72, 72A or 75. [1961 c.726 §77.5090;
2009 c.181 §85] 

   

 WAREHOUSE RECEIPTS AND BILLS
OF LADING: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 

   

       77.6010 Lost,
stolen or destroyed documents of title. (1) If a document of title is lost, stolen or
destroyed, a court may order delivery of the goods or issuance of a substitute
document and the bailee may without liability to any person comply with the
order. If the document was negotiable, a court may not order delivery of the
goods or issuance of a substitute document without the claimant’s posting
security unless it finds that any person that may suffer loss as a result of
nonsurrender of possession or control of the document is adequately protected
against the loss. If the document was nonnegotiable, the court may require
security. The court may also order payment of the bailee’s reasonable costs and
attorney fees in any action under this subsection. 

       (2) A bailee that
without a court order delivers goods to a person claiming under a missing
negotiable document of title is liable to any person injured thereby. If the
delivery is not in good faith, the bailee is liable for conversion. Delivery in
good faith is not conversion if the claimant posts security with the bailee in
an amount at least double the value of the goods at the time of posting to
indemnify any person injured by the delivery which files a notice of claim
within one year after the delivery. [1961 c.726 §77.6010; 2009 c.181 §86] 

   

       77.6020
Judicial process against goods covered by negotiable document of title. Unless a document of title was
originally issued upon delivery of the goods by a person that did not have
power to dispose of them, a lien does not attach by virtue of any judicial
process to goods in the possession of a bailee for which a negotiable document
of title is outstanding unless possession or control of the document is first
surrendered to the bailee or the document’s negotiation is enjoined. The bailee
may not be compelled to deliver the goods pursuant to process until possession
or control of the document is surrendered to the bailee or to the court. A
purchaser of the document for value without notice of the process or injunction
takes free of the lien imposed by judicial process. [1961 c.726 §77.6020; 2009
c.181 §87] 

   

       77.6030
Conflicting claims; interpleader. 
If more than one person claims title to or possession of the goods, the bailee
is excused from delivery until the bailee has a reasonable time to ascertain
the validity of the adverse claims or to commence an action for interpleader.
The bailee may assert an interpleader either in defending an action for
nondelivery of the goods or by original action. [1961 c.726 §77.6030; 2009
c.181 §88] 

   

       77.6040 [1961 c.726 §77.6040; 1995 c.79 §27;
repealed by 2009 c.181 §116] 

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
