 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 


 Chapter
96 — Line and Partition Fences 

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

   

 LINE AND PARTITION FENCES 

   

 PROPERTY RIGHTS AND TRANSACTIONS 

   

 96.010       Sharing expenses of
partition fence 

   

 96.020       Failure to repair
partition fence 

   

 96.030       Repairs by complainant 

   

 96.040       Removal of partition
fence 

   

 96.050       Gate in partition
fence 

   

 96.060       Removal of fence built
on another’s land 

   

       96.010 Sharing
expenses of partition fence. 
Whenever there is a fence that is in all respects such as a good husbandman
ought to keep on the line of any land, and the person owning or holding a lease
for one or more years of the land adjoining thereto makes or has an enclosure
on the opposite side of such fence, so that such fence answers the purpose of
enclosing the latter’s field, meadow, lot or other enclosure, the latter shall
pay the owner of such fence already erected, one-half of the value of so much
thereof as serves as a partition fence, such value to be determined by the
parties. If they cannot agree, the party aggrieved and entitled to compensation
for constructing or repairing the partition fence shall be entitled to recover
from the other in a civil action the value of one-half of such fence or half of
the value of repairing it before any court having competent jurisdiction in the
name of and for the use of the owner or lessee of such fence, together with
disbursements and costs of action. The prevailing party shall also recover
attorney fees at trial and on appeal, to be adjudged by the court. [Amended by
1981 c.897 §30] 

   

       96.020 Failure
to repair partition fence. 
If any party neglects to repair or rebuild such partition fence as is mentioned
in ORS 96.010 or the portion thereof which the party ought to maintain, the
aggrieved party may complain to a justice of the peace, who, after due notice
to each party, shall examine the fence and if the justice of the peace
determines it to be insufficient the justice of the peace shall so signify in
writing to the delinquent party and direct the latter to repair or rebuild it
within such time as the justice of the peace adjudges to be reasonable. 

   

       96.030 Repairs
by complainant. If
a partition fence is not repaired or rebuilt according to the directive
mentioned in ORS 96.020, the complainant may repair or rebuild it and recover
the value thereof from the delinquent party before any court of competent
jurisdiction. The court may award reasonable attorney fees to the prevailing
party in an action under this section. [Amended by 1981 c.897 §31; 1995 c.618 §54] 

   

       96.040 Removal
of partition fence. 
(1) In all cases where the enclosures of two or more persons are divided by a
partition fence of any kind and either of the parties thinks it proper to
vacate the part of the enclosure of that party or to make a lane or passage
between the adjoining enclosures, that party is at liberty to remove the share
of that party or part of the partition fence on giving six months’ notice in
writing of such intention to the party owning or occupying the adjoining
enclosure, or to the agent of the party, if such party is not a resident of the
county. 

       (2) When one
party ceases to improve the land of the party or opens the enclosure, the party
shall not take away any part of the partition fence belonging to the party and
adjoining the next enclosure if the owner or occupant of the adjoining
enclosure, within two months after it is ascertained, pays therefor such sum as
is agreed upon by the parties or, if they fail to agree, such sum as is
adjudged by two disinterested persons, selected by the parties, which two
persons, if they fail to agree, may select a third person, and the three
persons shall determine such sum. Such partition fence shall not be removed
when by so doing it will expose to destruction any crops in such enclosures. 

   

       96.050 Gate in
partition fence. 
In all cases where a partition fence exists between the land of two or more
persons and a gate is established for passage through their lands, any other
person may pass through the gate free, doing no unnecessary damage, and if any
such person leaves any such gate open or does other damage to the premises, the
person is liable to the aggrieved party in double damages. 

   

       96.060 Removal
of fence built on another’s land. 
(1) When any person has built or builds, by mistake and in good faith, a fence
on the land of another, such person or the successor in interest of the person
may, within one year from the time of discovering the mistake, go upon the land
of the other person and remove the fence, doing no unnecessary damage thereby. 

       (2) The occupant
or owner of land whereon a fence has been built by mistake shall not throw down
or in any manner disturb such fence during the period which the person who
built it is authorized by subsection (1) of this section to remove it. 

   

       96.070 [Repealed by 1981 c.111 §2] 

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
