 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 


 Chapter
542 — Water Resource Surveys and Projects; Compacts 

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

   

 WATER RESOURCE SURVEYS AND
PROJECTS; COMPACTS 

   

 WATER LAWS 

   

 SURVEY OF WATER RESOURCES 

   

 542.010     Contract by Water
Resources Commission with federal agencies for investigating and developing
water resources; expenses 

   

 542.020     Purpose of law 

   

 542.030     Report by commission;
contents; copies for public inspection 

   

 542.040     Withholding water from
appropriation pending investigation; restrictions on permit to appropriate;
repayment of cost of project 

   

 542.050     Construction work;
minor portions of project 

   

 542.060     Information on
availability of water for beneficial uses; duties of Water Resources
Commission; gauging stations; publication of information 

   

 542.070     Entry on lands 

   

 542.075     Identification and
funding of water projects offering significant public benefit; limitation 

   

 542.080     Cooperation with
federal agencies; contracts 

   

 542.090     Moneys from licenses
under Federal Waterpower Act; disposal 

   

 542.100     Acceptance and
expenditure of gifts and grants for hydrologic investigations; accounting 

   

 WILLAMETTE RIVER BASIN PROJECT 

   

 542.110     Public interest
requiring construction of system of works 

   

 ROGUE RIVER WATERSHED PROJECT 

   

 542.210     Construction of federal
dams and structures in Rogue River; limitations 

   

 OREGON-CALIFORNIA GOOSE LAKE
INTERSTATE COMPACT 

   

 542.510     Oregon-California Goose
Lake Interstate Compact ratified; when effective 

   

 542.520     Oregon-California Goose
Lake Interstate Compact 

   

 COLUMBIA RIVER NATURAL RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT COMPACT 

   

 542.550     Content of Columbia
River Natural Resources Management Compact; when effective 

   

 KLAMATH RIVER BASIN COMPACT 

   

 542.610     Klamath River Basin
Compact ratified; when effective 

   

 542.620     Klamath River Basin
Compact 

   

 542.630     Water Resources
Director to represent state in administering the Klamath River Basin Compact 

   

 WATERSHED PROTECTION AND FLOOD
PREVENTION PROJECTS 

   

 542.750     Cooperative studies of
projects under federal Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act 

   

 SURVEY OF WATER RESOURCES 

   

       542.010
Contract by Water Resources Commission with federal agencies for investigating
and developing water resources; expenses. In order that the natural resources of Oregon in
land, water and power may be utilized to the highest advantage of the people,
complete cooperation between the state and federal authorities in controlling,
investigating and developing these resources in the interest of the people of
the state is essential. Therefore, the Water Resources Commission may, on
behalf of this state, enter into a contract or agreement with any federal
department or bureau having jurisdiction in such matters for the execution of such
surveys and investigations and the preparation of such plans, specifications
and estimates or other data by cooperation between the state and the federal
department or bureau as will, in the judgment of the Water Resources
Commission, approved by the Governor, be best suited to accomplish the purposes
of ORS 542.010 to 542.050. However, in no case shall the proportion of expense
to be borne by this state exceed the proportion to be borne by the other party
to the contract or agreement. [Amended by 1985 c.673 §130] 

   

       542.020
Purpose of law. 
The intent of ORS 542.010 to 542.050, as outlined in ORS 542.010, is to have on
file ready and available, such detailed surveys and information as will not
only permit, but will tend to induce, the beneficial use of water by private
persons, irrigation districts, corporations, or possibly by the state or
national government. 

   

       542.030 Report
by commission; contents; copies for public inspection. As soon as practicable after the
completion of the surveys and investigations, the Water Resources Commission
shall prepare or have prepared a report setting forth the plans, specifications
and estimated cost of construction, maintenance and operation of the projects,
together with any other information tending to show their feasibility, and may
in the discretion of the commission have the report printed in pamphlet form
and distributed to those interested. Copies of completed maps, plans,
specifications, estimates and reports secured or prepared in connection with
any such investigation shall be kept on file in the Water Resources Department
at all times, and open for public inspection during business hours. [Amended by
1985 c.673 §131] 

   

       542.040
Withholding water from appropriation pending investigation; restrictions on
permit to appropriate; repayment of cost of project. (1) The Water Resources
Commission, on behalf of the state, shall withdraw and withhold from
appropriation any unappropriated water which may be required for any project
under investigation or to be investigated under the provisions of ORS 542.010
to 542.050. If the project is found to be feasible, the commission shall
withhold the same from appropriation until the money expended in the
investigation of the project is repaid to the cooperating parties in proportion
to the amount contributed by each unless funds for construction are provided by
one or both of the cooperating parties, in which case the commission shall
issue a permit without requiring such repayment. No permit to appropriate water
which may be in conflict with any such project under investigation shall be
approved by the commission, nor shall any assignment of plans and information
or any part thereof be made except upon consideration and order by the
commission after full hearing of all interested parties. 

       (2) Any moneys
returned to the commission under the provisions of this section shall promptly
be turned over to the State Treasurer and credited to the General Fund in the
State Treasury. [Amended by 1985 c.673 §132] 

   

       542.050
Construction work; minor portions of project. As the purposes of ORS 542.010 to 542.050 are to
secure the most immediate, as well as the most beneficial, ultimate use of the
available waters for any certain project, the Water Resources Commission, as
occasion may require, may grant permits and arrange the details so that minor
portions of the project may be segregated and constructed at any time. However,
the segregation and development of such minor parts shall not interfere to any
serious extent with the handling or completion of the balance of the project. [Amended
by 1985 c.673 §133] 

   

       542.060
Information on availability of water for beneficial uses; duties of Water
Resources Commission; gauging stations; publication of information. The Water Resources Commission
shall establish gauging stations at suitable points on the various streams of
the state to determine the daily and seasonal fluctuations in the flow of the
water; shall make surveys and profiles to determine the fall of stream suitable
for power development; and shall prepare topographic maps of the territory
adjacent to the private streams of the state, so that the availability of water
for power, irrigation or other beneficial uses may be determined and made known
to the public. All such maps and information shall be made a matter of record
in the Water Resources Department and the commission shall publish a summary of
all such information in the most practical and economical manner for
presentation to the public. The commission shall enter into such agreements and
contracts as will insure that the surveys and investigations are carried on in
the most economical manner, and that the maps and data are made available to
the use of the public as quickly as possible. [Amended by 1985 c.673 §134] 

   

       542.070 Entry
on lands. In order
to carry out the purpose of ORS 542.060 all persons employed under that section
may enter and cross all lands within the state; provided, that in so doing, no
unnecessary damage is done to private property. 

   

       542.075
Identification and funding of water projects offering significant public
benefit; limitation. 
(1) The Water Resources Commission, with the approval of the Governor, may
identify proposed or existing water projects which offer significant public
benefit, and recommend to the Legislative Assembly funding of those projects in
proportion to the public benefits offered by an existing project, or expected
to be obtained from a proposed project. 

       (2) In order to
be eligible for funding under subsection (1) of this section, the Water
Resources Commission must identify an existing project within five years after
the project first becomes operable. [1981 c.172 §3; 1985 c.673 §135; 1989 c.587
§4] 

   

       542.080
Cooperation with federal agencies; contracts. On behalf of this state, the Water Resources
Commission may cooperate with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the
United States Geological Survey, the United States Reclamation Service, or any
other federal agency or commission engaged in similar work, and may enter into
contracts or agreements whenever it appears desirable or advantageous to the
state. [Amended by 1985 c.673 §136] 

   

       542.090 Moneys
from licenses under Federal Waterpower Act; disposal. Any moneys arising from power
licenses under the Federal Waterpower Act, approved June 10, 1920, and paid
over to the state, shall be credited by the State Treasurer to the General
Fund. 

   

       542.100
Acceptance and expenditure of gifts and grants for hydrologic investigations;
accounting. The
Water Resources Commission may accept and expend moneys from any public or
private source, including the federal government, made available for the
purpose of conducting hydrologic investigations of Oregon water resources and
to assist in carrying out the commission’s functions as provided by law. All
moneys received by the commission under this section shall be kept in separate
accounts designated according to the purposes for which such moneys were
received. The commission shall keep a true and full account of receipts and
disbursements under this section. [1965 c.77 §2; 1985 c.673 §137] 

   

 WILLAMETTE RIVER BASIN
PROJECT 

   

       542.110 Public
interest requiring construction of system of works. (1) It hereby is declared that
public interest, welfare, convenience and necessity require the construction of
a system of works in accordance with the general comprehensive plan for flood
control, navigation and other purposes in the Willamette River Basin, as set
forth in House Document 544, Seventy-fifth Congress, third session, and the Act
of the Seventy-fifth Congress approved June 28, 1938, 52 Stat. 1222,
authorizing the construction of certain public works, including the Willamette
River Basin Project. 

       (2) The Water
Resources Commission may act for the state in all matters necessary or
advisable in the promotion, construction and maintenance of the Willamette
River Basin Project. [Amended by 1955 c.707 §57] 

   

       542.120 [Repealed by 1955 c.707 §75] 

   

       542.130 [Repealed by 1955 c.707 §75] 

   

       542.140 [Repealed by 1955 c.707 §75] 

   

       542.150 [Repealed by 1955 c.707 §75] 

   

       542.160 [Repealed by 1955 c.707 §75] 

   

 ROGUE RIVER WATERSHED
PROJECT 

   

       542.210
Construction of federal dams and structures in Rogue River; limitations. In order to further necessary
investigations and studies for the maximum development of the Rogue River basin
and watershed and to conserve established and potential uses thereof, and to
facilitate full consideration of various projects to accomplish a coordinated
and comprehensive development of the basin and watershed, the United States and
its authorized agencies may construct in the Rogue River and on its bed dams
and such other structures as the government deems necessary, upon compliance
with the laws of Oregon. However, no dam or structure hereby authorized shall
be placed in the Rogue River between the intersection of the river with the
south line of section 10, township 34 south, range 1 west of the Willamette
Meridian in Jackson County, and the confluence of that river with the Pacific
Ocean, which would interfere with the free passage of fish up or down stream.
No dam or other structure shall be constructed by any person in or on the bed
of the Rogue River below its intersection with the south line of section 27,
township 33 south, range 1 east of the Willamette Meridian, in Jackson County,
except as authorized by this section. 

   

       542.310 [Amended by 1953 c.622 §5;
repealed by 1955 c.707 §75] 

   

       542.320 [Amended by 1953 c.622 §5;
repealed by 1955 c.707 §75] 

   

       542.330 [Amended by 1953 c.622 §5;
repealed by 1955 c.707 §75] 

   

       542.340 [1953 c.622 §4; repealed by 1955
c.707 §75] 

   

       542.410 [1953 c.431 §1; repealed by 1957
c.142 §5] 

   

       542.420 [1953 c.431 §2; repealed by 1957
c.142 §5] 

   

       542.430 [1953 c.431 §3; repealed by 1957
c.142 §5] 

   

       542.440 [1953 c.431 §4; repealed by 1957
c.142 §5] 

   

       542.450 [1953 c.431 §5; repealed by 1957
c.142 §5] 

   

       542.460 [1953 c.431 §8; repealed by 1957
c.142 §5] 

   

       542.470 [1953 c.431 §7; repealed by 1957
c.142 §5] 

   

       542.480 [1953 c.431 §9; repealed by 1957
c.142 §5] 

   

       542.490 [1953 c.431 §6; repealed by 1957
c.142 §5] 

   

 OREGON-CALIFORNIA GOOSE
LAKE INTERSTATE COMPACT 

   

       542.510
Oregon-California Goose Lake Interstate Compact ratified; when effective. (1) The Legislative Assembly of
the State of Oregon hereby ratifies the Oregon-California Goose Lake Interstate
Compact as set out in ORS 542.520. The provisions of the compact are declared
to be the laws of this state at such time as the compact becomes effective as
provided in subsection (2) of this section. 

       (2) The compact
becomes effective when it has been ratified by the legislatures of the States
of Oregon and California and has been consented to by the Congress of the
United States as provided in Article VII of the compact. [1963 c.473 §1] 

   

       Note: The Oregon-California Goose Lake
Interstate Compact became effective on July 2, 1984. The compact was ratified
by the State of Oregon by chapter 473, Oregon Laws 1963 (signed by Governor on
June 6, 1963). The compact was ratified by the State of California by chapter
1059, California Statutes 1963 (signed by Governor on June 28, 1963). The
Congress of the United States consented to the compact by Public Law 98-334,
98th Congress (signed by President on July 2, 1984). 

   

       542.520
Oregon-California Goose Lake Interstate Compact. The provisions of the
Oregon-California Goose Lake Interstate Compact are as follows: 

 ______________________________________________________________________________ 

 ARTICLE I 

 PURPOSES 

       The major
purposes of this compact are: 

       A. To facilitate
and promote the orderly, integrated and comprehensive development, use,
conservation and control of the water resources of Goose Lake Basin. 

       B. To further
intergovernmental cooperation and comity and to remove the causes of present
and future controversies by (1) providing for continued development of the
water resources of Goose Lake Basin by the States of California and Oregon, and
(2) prohibiting the export of water from Goose Lake Basin without consent of
the legislatures of California and Oregon. 

 ARTICLE II 

 DEFINITION OF TERMS 

       As used in this
compact: 

       A. “Goose Lake
Basin” shall mean the drainage area of Goose Lake within the States of
California and Oregon and all closed basins included in the Goose Lake drainage
basin as delineated on the official map of the Goose Lake Basin which is
attached to and made a part of this compact. 

       B. “Person” shall
mean the States of Oregon and California, any individual and any other entity,
public or private. 

       C. “Water,” “waters”
or “water resources” shall mean any water appearing on the surface of the
ground in streams, lakes, or otherwise, and any water beneath the land surface
or beneath the bed of any stream, lake, reservoir or other body of surface
water within the boundaries of Goose Lake Basin. 

 ARTICLE III 

 DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF
WATER 

       A. There are
hereby recognized vested rights to the use of waters originating in Goose Lake
Basin existing as of the effective date of this compact and established under
the laws of California and Oregon. 

       B. Except as
provided in this Article, this compact shall not be construed as affecting or
interfering with appropriation under the laws of California and Oregon of
unappropriated waters of Goose Lake Basin for use within the basin. 

       C. Export of
water from Goose Lake Basin for use outside the basin without prior consent of
both state legislatures is prohibited. 

       D. Each state
hereby grants the right for a person to construct and operate facilities for
the measurement, diversion, storage and conveyance of water from the Goose Lake
Basin in one state for use within the basin in the other state, providing the
right to such use is secured by appropriation under the general laws
administered by the Water Resources Director of the State of Oregon or the
Water Rights Board of California and the laws of the state from which the water
is to be taken shall control. 

       E. Should any
facilities be constructed in one state to implement use of water in the other
state, the construction, operation, repairs and replacement of such facilities
shall be subject to the laws of the state in which the facilities are
constructed. 

 ARTICLE IV 

 ADMINISTRATION 

       No commission or
administrative body is necessary to administer this compact. 

 ARTICLE V 

 TERMINATION 

       This compact may
be terminated at any time by consent of the legislatures of California and
Oregon and upon such termination all rights then established hereunder shall
continue unimpaired. 

 ARTICLE VI 

 GENERAL PROVISIONS 

       Nothing in this
compact shall be construed to limit, or prevent any state from instituting or
maintaining any action or proceeding, legal or equitable, in any court having
jurisdiction thereof for the protection of any right under this compact or the
enforcement of any of its provisions. 

 ARTICLE VII 

 RATIFICATION 

       A. This compact
shall become operative when ratified by the legislatures of California and
Oregon and consented to by the Congress of the United States. 

       B. This compact
shall remain in full force and effect until amended in the same manner as is
required for it to be ratified to become operative or until terminated. 

       C. A copy of any
proposed amendments to or termination of this compact shall be filed with the
Board of Supervisors of Modoc County, California, and the County Court of Lake
County, Oregon, at least 30 days prior to any legislative consideration by the
legislatures of the States of California and Oregon. 

 ARTICLE VIII 

 FEDERAL RIGHTS 

       Nothing in this
compact shall be deemed: 

       A. To impair or
affect the existing rights or powers of the United States of America, its
agencies, or instrumentalities, in and to the use of the waters of the Goose
Lake Basin nor its capacity to acquire rights in and to the use of said waters. 

       B. To subject any
property of the United States of America, its agencies or instrumentalities to
taxation by any state or subdivision thereof, nor to create an obligation on
the part of the United States of America, its agencies or instrumentalities by
reason of the acquisition, construction or operation of any property or works
of whatsoever kind, to make any payments to any state or political subdivision
thereof, state agency, municipality or entity, whatsoever in reimbursement for
the loss of taxes. 

       C. To subject any
property of the United States of America, its agencies or instrumentalities, to
the laws of any state to any extent other than the extent to which these laws
would apply without regard to the compact. 

 ______________________________________________________________________________
[1963 c.473 §2] 

   

 COLUMBIA RIVER NATURAL 

 RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
COMPACT 

   

       542.550
Content of Columbia River Natural Resources Management Compact; when effective. A compact, in form as in this
section fully set forth, shall be in effect when the States of Idaho, Montana
and Washington become parties thereto, and the consent of Congress has been
granted as required by section 10, Article I of the United States Constitution. 

 ______________________________________________________________________________ 

       The contracting
states do hereby agree as follows: 

 ARTICLE I 

       The purposes of
this compact, entitled the Columbia River Natural Resources Management Compact,
are and shall be to promote the better regional management and coordination of
natural resources management issues and other issues pertaining to the governance
and use of the Columbia River. 

 ARTICLE II 

       This agreement
shall become operative immediately as to those states executing it in the form
that is in accordance with the laws of the executing states and the Congress
has given its consent. 

 ARTICLE III 

       Each state
joining herein shall appoint, as determined by state statutes, six legislators,
three from the state Senate and three from the state House of Representatives,
to a commission hereby constituted and designated as the Columbia River
Governance Commission. Of the members appointed, all may not belong to the same
political party. This commission shall be invested with the powers and duties
set forth herein. 

       The term of each
commissioner of the Columbia River Governance Commission shall be four years. A
commissioner shall hold office until a successor shall be appointed and
qualified but such successor’s term shall expire four years from legal date of
expiration of the term of the predecessor. Vacancies occurring in the office of
such commissioner from any reason or cause shall be filled for the unexpired
term, or a commissioner may be removed from office, as provided by the statutes
of the state concerned. Each commissioner may delegate in writing from time to
time, to a deputy, the power to be present and participate, including voting as
the representative or substitute, at any meeting of or hearing by or other
proceeding of the commission. 

       Voting powers
under this compact shall be limited to one vote for each state regardless of
the number of representatives. 

 ARTICLE IV 

       The duty of the
Columbia River Governance Commission shall be to assess programs of state and
federal agencies responsible for natural resource management issues and
governance issues of the Columbia River and to participate in decision-making
by federal agencies on issues affecting the use of and activities on the
Columbia River. The commission shall have power to recommend the coordination
of the exercise of the police powers of the several states within their
respective jurisdictions to promote the efficient use and management of the
Columbia River and resources related to the Columbia River. 

       To that end the
commission shall draft and, after consultation with the advisory committee
hereinafter authorized, recommend to the Governors and legislative branches of
the various signatory states hereto legislation dealing with the governance and
management of the Columbia River and the natural resources related to the
Columbia River over which the signatory states jointly or separately now have
or may hereafter acquire jurisdiction. The commission shall, more than one
month prior to any regular meeting of the legislative branch in any state
signatory hereto, present to the Governor of such state its recommendations
relating to enactments by the legislative branch of that state in furthering
the intents and purposes of this compact. 

       The commission
shall consult with and advise the pertinent administrative agencies in the
signatory states of such regulations as it deems advisable with regard to
problems connected with the governance and use of the Columbia River and that
lie within the jurisdiction of such agencies. 

       The commission
shall have power to recommend to the federal government and to states signatory
hereto management strategies for the natural resources of the Columbia River
and any changes to federal or state statutes, regulations or rules necessary to
the efficient and sound governance of the Columbia River and its natural
resources. 

 ARTICLE V 

       The commission
shall elect from its number a chairperson and a vice chairperson and shall
appoint and at its pleasure remove or discharge such officers and employees as
may be required to carry out the provisions of this compact and shall fix and
determine their duties, qualifications and compensation. Said commission shall
adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of its business. It may establish
and maintain one or more offices for the transaction of its business and may
meet at any time or place within the territorial limits of the signatory states
but must meet at least once a year. 

 ARTICLE VI 

       No action shall
be taken by the commission except by the affirmative vote of a majority of the
whole number of compacting states represented at any meeting. No recommendation
shall be made by the commission in regard to the management of natural
resources related to, or the governance and use of, the Columbia River except
by the vote of a majority of the compacting states that have an interest in
such issues. 

 ARTICLE VII 

       The natural
resource agencies of the signatory states shall act in collaboration as the
official research agency of the Columbia River Governance Commission. 

       An advisory
committee to be representative of such other interests of each state as the
commission deems advisable shall be established by the commission as soon as
practicable for the purpose of advising the commission upon such
recommendations as it may desire to make. 

 ARTICLE VIII 

       Nothing in this
compact shall be construed to limit the powers of any state or to repeal or
prevent the enactment of any legislation or the enforcement of any requirement
by any state imposing additional conditions and restrictions to conserve its
natural resources. 

 ARTICLE IX 

       Continued absence
of representation or of any representative on the commission from any state
party hereto shall be brought to the attention of the Governor thereof. 

 ARTICLE X 

       The states that
sign this compact agree to make available annual funds for the support of the
commission on the following basis: 

       Sixty percent
(60%) of the annual budget shall be shared equally by those member states
having as a boundary the Columbia River; and forty percent (40%) of the annual
budget shall be shared equally by the other member states. 

       The annual
contribution of each member state shall be figured to the nearest one hundred
dollars. 

       This article
shall become effective upon its enactment by the States of Idaho, Montana,
Oregon and Washington and upon ratification by Congress by virtue of the
authority vested in it under section 10, Article I of the United States
Constitution. 

 ARTICLE XI 

       This compact
shall continue in force and remain binding upon each state until renounced by
it. Renunciation of this compact must be preceded by sending six months’
written notice of intention to withdraw from the compact to the other parties
hereto. 

 ARTICLE XII 

       The State of
Nevada or any state having rivers or streams tributary to the Columbia River
may become a contracting state by enactment of the Columbia River Natural
Resources Management Compact. Upon admission of any new state to the compact,
the purposes of the compact and the duties of the commission shall extend to
the development of joint programs for the use and governance of the Columbia
River and its natural resources in which the contracting states share mutual
concerns. 

       This article
shall become effective upon its enactment by the States of Idaho, Montana,
Oregon and Washington and upon ratification by Congress by virtue of the
authority vested in it under section 10, Article I of the United States
Constitution. 

 ______________________________________________________________________________
[1999 c.540 §1] 

   

       Note: 542.550 was enacted into law by
the Legislative Assembly but was not added to or made a part of ORS chapter 542
or any series therein by legislative action. See Preface to Oregon Revised
Statutes for further explanation. 

   

 KLAMATH RIVER BASIN
COMPACT 

   

       542.610
Klamath River Basin Compact ratified; when effective. (1) The Legislative Assembly of
the State of Oregon hereby ratifies the Klamath River Basin Compact set forth
in ORS 542.620, and the provisions of such compact hereby are declared to be
the law of this state upon such compact becoming effective as provided in
subsection (2) of this section. 

       (2) The compact
shall become effective when it has been ratified by the legislatures of the
States of California and Oregon, and has been consented to by the Congress of
the United States as provided in Article XIII of the compact. [1957 c.142 §1] 

   

       Note: The Klamath River Basin Compact
became effective on September 11, 1957. The compact was ratified by the State
of Oregon by chapter 142, Oregon Laws 1957 (signed by Governor on April 17,
1957). The compact was ratified by the State of California by chapter 113,
California Statutes 1957 (signed by Governor on April 17, 1957, and effective
on September 11, 1957). The Congress of the United States consented to the
compact by Public Law 85-222, 85th Congress (signed by President on August 30,
1957). 

   

       542.620
Klamath River Basin Compact. 
The provisions of the Klamath River Basin Compact are as follows: 

 ______________________________________________________________________________ 

 ARTICLE I 

 PURPOSES 

       The major
purposes of this compact are, with respect to the water resources of the
Klamath River Basin: 

       A. To facilitate
and promote the orderly, integrated and comprehensive development, use,
conservation and control thereof for various purposes, including, among others:
The use of water for domestic purposes; the development of lands by irrigation
and other means; the protection and enhancement of fish, wildlife and
recreational resources; the use of water for industrial purposes and
hydroelectric power production; and the use and control of water for navigation
and flood prevention. 

       B. To further
intergovernmental cooperation and comity with respect to these resources and
programs for their use and development and to remove causes of present and
future controversies by providing (1) for equitable distribution and use of
water among the two states and the Federal Government, (2) for preferential
rights to the use of water after the effective date of this compact for the
anticipated ultimate requirements for domestic and irrigation purposes in the
Upper Klamath River Basin in Oregon and California, and (3) for prescribed
relationships between beneficial uses of water as a practicable means of
accomplishing such distribution and use. 

 ARTICLE II 

 DEFINITION OF TERMS 

       As used in this
compact: 

       A. “Klamath River
Basin” shall mean the drainage area of the Klamath River and all its
tributaries within the States of California and Oregon and all closed basins
included in the Upper Klamath River Basin. 

       B. “Upper Klamath
River Basin” shall mean the drainage area of the Klamath River and all its
tributaries upstream from the boundary between the States of California and
Oregon and the closed basins of Butte Valley, Red Rock Valley, Lost River
Valley, Swan Lake Valley and Crater Lake, as delineated on the official map of
the Upper Klamath River Basin approved on September 6, 1956, by the commissions
negotiating this compact and filed with the Secretaries of State of the two
states and the General Services Administration of the United States, which map
is incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. 

       C. “Commission”
shall mean the Klamath River Compact Commission as created by Article IX of
this compact. 

       D. “Klamath
Project” of the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior of the
United States shall mean that area as delineated by appropriate legend on the
official map incorporated by reference under subdivision B of this Article. 

       E. “Person” shall
mean any individual or any other entity, public or private, including either
state, but excluding the United States. 

       F. “Keno” shall
mean a point on the Klamath River at the present needle dam, or any substitute
control dam constructed in section 36, township 39 south, range 7 east,
Willamette Base and Meridian. 

       G. “Water” or “waters”
shall mean waters appearing on the surface of the ground in streams, lakes or
otherwise, regardless of whether such waters at any time were or will become
ground water, but shall not include water extracted from underground sources
until after such water is used and becomes surface return flow or waste water. 

       H. “Domestic use”
shall mean the use of water for human sustenance, sanitation and comfort; for
municipal purposes; for livestock watering; for irrigation of family gardens;
and for other like purposes. 

       I. “Industrial
use” shall mean the use of water in manufacturing operations. 

       J. “Irrigation
use” shall mean the use of water for production of agricultural crops,
including grain grown for feeding wildfowl. 

 ARTICLE III 

 DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF
WATER 

       A. There are
hereby recognized vested rights to the use of waters originating in the Upper
Klamath River Basin validly established and subsisting as of the effective date
of this compact under the laws of the state in which the use or diversion is
made, including rights to the use of waters for domestic and irrigation uses
within the Klamath Project. There are also hereby recognized rights to the use
of all waters reasonably required for domestic and irrigation uses which may
hereafter be made within the Klamath Project. 

       B. Subject to the
rights described in subdivision A of this Article and excepting the uses of
water set forth in subdivision E of Article XI, rights to the use of
unappropriated waters originating within the Upper Klamath River Basin for any
beneficial use in the Upper Klamath River Basin, by direct diversion or by
storage for later use, may be acquired by any person after the effective date
of this compact by appropriation under the laws of the state where the use is
to be made, as modified by the following provisions of this subdivision B and
subdivision C of this Article, and may not be acquired in any other way: 

       1. In granting
permits to appropriate waters under this subdivision B, as among conflicting
applications to appropriate when there is insufficient water to satisfy all
such applications, each state shall give preference to applications for a
higher use over applications for a lower use in accordance with the following
order of uses: 

       (a) Domestic use, 

       (b) Irrigation
use, 

       (c) Recreational
use, including use for fish and wildlife, 

       (d) Industrial
use, 

       (e) Generation of
hydroelectric power, 

       (f) Such other
uses as are recognized under the laws of the state involved. 

   

 These uses are referred
to in this compact as uses (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f), respectively.
Except as to the superiority of rights to the use of water for use (a) or (b)
over the rights to the use of water for use (c), (d), (e) or (f), as governed by
subdivision C of this Article, upon a permit being granted and a right becoming
vested and perfected by use, priority in right to the use of water shall be
governed by priority in time within the entire Upper Klamath River Basin
regardless of state boundaries. The date of priority of any right to the use of
water appropriated for the purposes above enumerated shall be the date of the
filing of the application therefor, but such priority shall be dependent on
commencement and completion of construction of the necessary works and
application of the water to beneficial use with due diligence and within the
times specified under the laws of the state where the use is to be made. Each
state shall promptly provide the commission and the appropriate official of the
other state with complete information as to such applications and as to all
actions taken thereon. 

       2. Conditions on
the use of water under this subdivision B in Oregon shall be: 

       (a) That there
shall be no diversion of waters from the Upper Klamath River Basin, but this
limitation shall not apply to out-of-basin diversions of waters originating
within the drainage area of Fourmile Lake. 

       (b) That water
diverted from Upper Klamath Lake and the Klamath River and its tributaries
upstream from Keno, Oregon, for use in Oregon and not consumed therein and
appearing as surface return flow and waste water within the Upper Klamath River
Basin shall be returned to the Klamath River or its tributaries above Keno,
Oregon. 

       3. Conditions on
the use of water under this subdivision B in California shall be: 

       (a) That the
waters diverted from the Klamath River within the Upper Klamath River Basin for
use in California shall not be taken outside the Upper Klamath River Basin. 

       (b) That
substantially all of the return flows and waste water finally resulting from
such diversions and use appearing as surface waters in the Upper Klamath River
Basin shall be made to drain so as to be eventually returned to the Klamath
River upstream from Keno, Oregon. 

       C. 1. All rights,
acquired by appropriation after the effective date of this compact, to use
waters originating within the Upper Klamath River Basin for use (a) or (b) in
the Upper Klamath River Basin in either state shall be superior to any rights,
acquired after the effective date of this compact, to use such waters (i) for
any purpose outside the Klamath River Basin by diversion in California or (ii)
for use (c), (d), (e) or (f) anywhere in the Klamath River Basin. Such superior
rights shall exist regardless of their priority in time and may be exercised
with respect to inferior rights without the payment of compensation. But such
superior rights to use water for use (b) in California shall be limited to the
quantity of water necessary to irrigate 100,000 acres of land, and in Oregon
shall be limited to the quantity of water necessary to irrigate 200,000 acres
of land. 

       2. The provisions
of paragraph 1 of this subdivision C shall not prohibit the acquisition and
exercise after the effective date of this compact of rights to store waters
originating within the Upper Klamath River Basin and to make later use of such
stored water for any purpose, as long as the storing of waters for such later
use, while being effected, does not interfere with the direct diversion or
storage of such waters for use (a) or (b) in the Upper Klamath River Basin. 

 ARTICLE IV 

 HYDROELECTRIC POWER 

       It shall be the
objective of each state, in the formulation and the execution and the granting
of authority for the formulation and execution of plans for the distribution
and use of the water of the Klamath River Basin, to provide for the most
efficient use of available power head and its economic integration with the
distribution of water for other beneficial uses in order to secure the most
economical distribution and use of water and lowest power rates which may be
reasonable for irrigation and drainage pumping, including pumping from wells. 

 ARTICLE V 

 INTERSTATE DIVERSION
AND STORAGE RIGHTS; MEASURING DEVICES 

       A. Each state
hereby grants for the benefit of the other and its designees the right to
construct and operate facilities for the measurement, diversion, storage and
conveyance of water from the Upper Klamath River Basin in one state for use in
the other insofar as the exercise of such right may be necessary to effectuate
and comply with the terms of this compact. The location of such facilities
shall be subject to approval by the commission. 

       B. Each state or
its designee, exercising within the jurisdiction of the other a right granted
under subdivision A of this Article, shall make provision for the
establishment, operation and maintenance of permanent gaging stations at such
points on streams or reservoir or conveyance facilities as may be required by
the commission for the purpose of ascertaining and recording the volume of
diversions by the streams or facilities involved. Said stations shall be
equipped with suitable devices for determining the flow of water at all times.
All information obtained from such stations shall be compiled in accordance
with the standards of the United States Geological Survey, shall be filed with
the commission, and shall be available to the public. 

 ARTICLE VI 

 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY
FOR STORAGE AND DIVERSION; IN LIEU TAXES 

       A. Subject to
approval of the commission, either state shall have the right (1) to acquire
such property rights in the other state as are necessary for the diversion,
storage, conveyance, measurement and use of water in conformity with this
compact, by donation or purchase, or (2) to elect to have the other state
acquire such property rights for it by purchase or through the exercise of the
power of eminent domain. A state making the latter election shall make a
written request therefor and the other state shall expeditiously acquire said
property rights either by purchase at a price satisfactory to the requesting
state, or, if such purchase cannot be made, then through the exercise of its
power of eminent domain, and shall convey said property rights to the
requesting state or its designee. All costs of such acquisition shall be paid
by the requesting state. Neither state shall have any greater power to acquire
property rights for the other state through the exercise of the power of
eminent domain than it would have under its laws to acquire the same property
rights for itself. 

       B. Should any diversion,
storage or conveyance facilities be constructed or acquired in either state for
the benefit of the other state, as herein provided, the construction, repair,
replacement, maintenance and operation of such facilities shall be subject to
the laws of the state in which the facilities are located, except that the
proper officials of that state shall permit the storage, release and conveyance
of any water to which the other state is entitled under this compact. 

       C. Either state
having property rights other than water rights in the other state acquired as
provided in this Article shall pay to each political subdivision of the state
in which such property rights are located, each and every year during which
such rights are held, a sum of money equivalent to the average annual amount of
taxes assessed against those rights during the 10 years preceding the
acquisition of such rights in reimbursement for the loss of taxes to such
political subdivisions of the state. Payments so made to a political
subdivision shall be in lieu of any and all taxes by that subdivision on the
property rights for which the payments are made. 

 ARTICLE VII 

 POLLUTION CONTROL 

       A. The states
recognize that the growth of population and the economy of the Upper Klamath
River Basin can result in pollution of the waters of the Upper Klamath River
Basin constituting a menace to the health and welfare of, and occasioning
economic loss to, people living or having interests in the Klamath River Basin.
The states recognize further that protection of the beneficial uses of the
waters of the Klamath River Basin requires cooperative action of the two states
in pollution abatement and control. 

       B. To aid in such
pollution abatement and control, the commission shall have the duty and power: 

       1. To cooperate
with the states or agencies thereof or other entities and with the United
States for the purpose of promoting effective laws and the adoption of
effective regulations for abatement and control of pollution of the waters of
the Klamath River Basin, and from time to time to recommend to the governments
reasonable minimum standards for the quality of such waters. 

       2. To disseminate
to the public by any and all appropriate means information respecting pollution
abatement and control in the waters of the Klamath River Basin and on the
harmful and uneconomic results of such pollution. 

       C. Each state
shall have the primary obligation to take appropriate action under its own laws
to abate and control interstate pollution, which is defined as the
deterioration of the quality of the waters of the Upper Klamath River Basin
within the boundaries of such state which materially and adversely affects
beneficial uses of waters of the Klamath River Basin in the other state. Upon
complaint to the commission by the state water pollution control agency of one
state that interstate pollution originating in the other state is not being
prevented or abated, the procedure shall be as follows: 

       1. The commission
shall make an investigation and hold a conference on the alleged interstate
pollution with the water pollution control agencies of the two states, after
which the commission shall recommend appropriate corrective action. 

       2. If appropriate
corrective action is not taken within a reasonable time, the commission shall
call a hearing, giving reasonable notice in writing thereof to the water
pollution control agencies of the two states and to the person or persons which
it is believed are causing the alleged interstate pollution. Such hearing shall
be held in accordance with rules and regulations of the commission, which shall
conform as nearly as practicable with the laws of the two states governing
administrative hearings. At the conclusion of such hearing, the commission
shall make a finding as to whether interstate pollution exists, and if so,
shall issue to any person or persons which the commission finds are causing
such interstate pollution an order or orders for correction thereof. 

       3. It shall be
the duty of the person against whom any such order is issued to comply
therewith. Any court of general jurisdiction of the state where such discharge
is occurring or the United States District Court for the district where the
discharge is occurring shall have jurisdiction, on petition of the commission
for enforcement of such order, to compel action by mandamus, injunction,
specific performance, or any other appropriate remedy, or on petition of the
person against whom the order is issued to review any order. At the conclusion
of such enforcement or review proceedings, the court may enter such decree or
judgment affirming, reversing, modifying, or remanding such order as in its
judgment is proper in the circumstances on the basis of the rules customarily
applicable in proceedings for court enforcement or review of administrative
actions. 

       D. The water
pollution control agencies of the two states shall, from time to time, make
available to the commission all data relating to the quality of the waters of
the Upper Klamath River Basin which they possess as the result of studies,
surveys and investigations thereof which they may have made. 

 ARTICLE VIII 

 MISCELLANEOUS 

       A. Subject to
vested rights as of the effective date of this compact, there shall be no
diversion of waters from the basin of Jenny Creek to the extent that such
waters are required, as determined by the commission, for use on land within
the basin of Jenny Creek. 

       B. Each state
shall exercise whatever administrative, judicial, legislative or police powers
it has that are required to provide any necessary reregulation or other control
over the flow of the Klamath River downstream from any hydroelectric power
plant for protection of fish, human life or property from damage caused by
fluctuations resulting from the operation of such plant. 

 ARTICLE IX 

 ADMINISTRATION 

       A. 1. There is
hereby created a commission to administer this compact. The commission shall
consist of three members. The representative of the State of California shall
be the Department of Water Resources. The representative of the State of Oregon
shall be the Water Resources Commission of Oregon who shall serve as ex officio
representative of the Water Resources Commission of Oregon. The President is
requested to appoint a federal representative who shall be designated and shall
serve as provided by the laws of the United States. 

       2. The
representative of each state shall be entitled to one vote in the commission.
The representative of the United States shall serve as chairman of the
commission without vote. The compensation and expenses of each representative
shall be fixed and paid by the government which he represents. Any action by
the commission shall be effective only if it be agreed to by both voting
members. 

       3. The commission
shall meet to establish its formal organization within 60 days after the
effective date of this compact, such meeting to be at the call of the Governors
of the two states. The commission shall then adopt its initial set of rules and
regulations governing the management of its internal affairs providing for,
among other things, the calling and holding of meetings, the adoption of a
seal, and the authority and duties of the chairman and executive director. The
commission shall establish its office within the Upper Klamath River Basin. 

       4. The commission
shall appoint an executive director, who shall also act as secretary, to serve
at the pleasure of the commission and at such compensation, under such terms
and conditions and performing such duties as it may fix. The executive director
shall be the custodian of the records of the commission with authority to affix
the commission’s official seal, and to attest to and certify such records or
copies thereof. The commission, without regard to the provisions of the civil
service laws of either state, may appoint and discharge such consulting,
clerical and other personnel as may be necessary for the performance of the
commission’s functions, may define their duties, and may fix and pay their
compensation. The commission may require the executive director and any of its
employees to post official bonds, and the cost thereof shall be paid by the
commission. 

       5. All records,
files and documents of the commission shall be open for public inspection at
its office during established office hours. 

       6. No member,
officer or employee of the commission shall be liable for injury or damage
resulting from (a) action taken by such member, officer or employee in good
faith and without malice under the apparent authority of this compact, even
though such action is later judicially determined to be unauthorized, or (b)
the negligent or wrongful act or omission of any other person, employed by the
commission and serving under such officer, member or employee, unless such
member, officer or employee either failed to exercise due care in the
selection, appointment or supervision of such other person, or failed to take
all available action to suspend or discharge such other person after knowledge
or notice that such other person was inefficient or incompetent to perform the
work for which he was employed. No suit may be instituted against a member,
officer or employee of the commission for damages alleged to have resulted from
the negligent or wrongful act or omission of such member, officer or employee
or a subordinate thereof occurring during the performance of his official
duties unless, within 90 days after occurrence of the incident, a verified
claim for damages is presented in writing and filed with such member, officer
or employee and with the commission. In the event of a suit for damages against
any member, officer or employee of the commission on account of any act or
omission in the performance of his or his subordinates’ official duties, the
commission shall arrange for the defense of such suit and may pay all expenses
therefor on behalf of such member, officer or employee. The commission may at
its expense insure its members, officers and employees against liability
resulting from their acts or omissions in the performance of their official
duties. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as imposing any liability
upon any member, officer or employee of the commission that he would otherwise
not have. 

       7. The commission
may incur obligations and pay expenses which are necessary for the performance
of its functions. But it shall not pledge the credit of any government except
by and with the authority of the legislative body thereof given pursuant to and
in keeping with the constitution of such government, nor shall the commission
incur any obligations prior to the availability of funds adequate to meet them. 

       8. The commission
may: 

       (a) Borrow,
accept or contract for the services of personnel from any government or agency
thereof, from any intergovernmental agency, or from any other entity. 

       (b) Accept for
any of its purposes and functions under this compact any and all donations,
gifts, grants of money, equipment, supplies, materials and services from any
government or agency thereof or intergovernmental agency or from any other
entity. 

       (c) Acquire, hold
and dispose of real and personal property as may be necessary in the
performance of its functions. 

       (d) Make such
studies, surveys and investigations as are necessary in carrying out the
provisions of this compact. 

       9. All meetings
of the commission for the consideration of and action on any matters coming
before the commission, except matters involving the management of internal
affairs of the commission and its staff, shall be open to the public. Matters
coming within the exception of this paragraph may be considered and acted upon
by the commission in executive sessions under such rules and regulations as may
be established therefor. 

       10. In the case
of the failure of the two voting members of the commission to agree on any
matter relating to the administration of this compact as provided in paragraph
2 of this subdivision A, the representative from each state shall appoint one
person and the two appointed persons shall appoint a third person. The three
appointees shall sit as an arbitration forum. The terms of appointment and the
compensation of the members of the arbitration forum shall be fixed by the
commission. Matters on which the two voting members of the commission have
failed to agree shall be decided by a majority vote of the members of the
arbitration forum. Each state obligates itself to abide by the decision of the
arbitration forum, subject, however, to the right of each state to have the
decision reviewed by a court of competent jurisdiction. 

       11. The
commission shall have the right of access, through its authorized
representatives, to all properties in the Klamath River Basin whenever
necessary for the purpose of administration of this compact. The commission may
obtain a court order to enforce its right of access. 

       B. 1. The
commission shall submit to the Governor or designated officer of each state a
budget of its estimated expenditures for such period and at such times as may
be required by the laws of that state for presentation to the legislature
thereof. Each state pledges itself to appropriate and pay over to the
commission one-half of the amount required to finance the commission’s
estimated expenditures as set forth in each of its budgets, and pledges further
that concurrently with approval of this compact by its legislature the sum of
not less than $12,000 will be appropriated by it to be paid over to the
commission at its first meeting for use in financing the commission’s functions
until the commission can prepare its first budget and receive its first
appropriation thereunder from the states. 

       2. The commission
shall keep accurate accounts of all receipts and disbursements, which shall be
audited yearly by a certified public accountant, and the report of the audit
shall be made a part of its annual report. The accounts of the commission shall
be open for public inspection during established office hours. 

       3. The commission
shall make and transmit to the legislature and Governor of each state and to
the President of the United States an annual report covering the finances and
activities of the commission and embodying such plans, recommendations and
findings as may have been adopted by the commission. 

       C. 1. The
commission shall have the power to adopt, and to amend or repeal, such rules
and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this compact as in its judgment
may be appropriate. 

       2. Except as to
matters involving exclusively the management of the internal affairs of the
commission and its staff or involving emergency matters, prior to the adoption,
amendment or repeal of any rule or regulation the commission shall hold a
hearing at which any interested person shall have the opportunity to present
his views on the proposed action in writing, with or without the opportunity to
present the same orally. The commission shall give adequate advance notice in a
reasonable manner of the time, place and subject of such hearings. 

       3. Emergency
rules and regulations may be adopted without a prior hearing, but in such case
they may be effective for not longer than 90 days. 

       4. The commission
shall publish its rules and regulations in convenient form. 

 ARTICLE X 

 STATUS OF INDIAN RIGHTS 

       A. Nothing in
this compact shall be deemed: 

       1. To affect
adversely the present rights of any individual Indian, tribe, band or community
of Indians to the use of the waters of the Klamath River Basin for irrigation. 

       2. To deprive any
individual Indian, tribe, band or community of Indians of any rights,
privileges, or immunities afforded under federal treaty, agreement or statute. 

       3. To affect the
obligations of the United States of America to the Indians, tribes, bands or
communities of Indians, and their reservations. 

       4. To alter,
amend or repeal any of the provisions of the Act of August 13, 1954, (68 Stat.
718) as it may be amended. 

       B. Lands within
the Klamath Indian Reservation which are brought under irrigation after the
effective date of this compact, whether before or after section 14 of said Act
of August 13, 1954, becomes fully operative, shall be taken into account in
determining whether the 200,000 acre limitation provided in paragraph 1 of
subdivision C of Article III has been reached. 

 ARTICLE XI 

 FEDERAL RIGHTS 

       Nothing in this
compact shall be deemed: 

       A. To impair or
affect any rights, powers or jurisdiction of the United States, its agencies or
those acting by or under its authority, in, over and to the waters of the
Klamath River Basin, nor to impair or affect the capacity of the United States,
its agencies or those acting by or under its authority in any manner
whatsoever, except as otherwise provided by the federal legislation enacted for
the implementation of this compact as specified in Article XIII. 

       B. To subject any
property of the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, to taxation
by either state or any subdivision thereof, unless otherwise provided by Act of
Congress. 

       C. To subject any
works or property of the United States, its agencies, instrumentalities or
those acting by or under its authority, used in connection with the control or
use of waters which are the subject of this compact, to the laws of any state
to an extent other than the extent to which those laws would apply without
regard to this compact, except as otherwise provided by the federal legislation
enacted for the implementation of this compact as specified in Article XIII. 

       D. To affect
adversely the existing areas of Crater Lake National Park or Lava Beds National
Monument, or to limit the operation of laws relating to the preservation
thereof. 

       E. To apply to
the use of water for the maintenance, on the scale at which such land and water
areas are maintained as of the effective date of this compact, of officially
designated waterfowl management areas, including water consumed by evaporation
and transpiration on water surface areas and water used for irrigation or
otherwise in the Upper Klamath River Basin; nor to affect the rights and
obligations of the United States under any migratory bird treaty or the
Migratory Bird Conservation Act (45 Stat. 1222), as amended to the effective
date of this compact. 

 ARTICLE XII 

 GENERAL PROVISIONS 

       A. Each state and
all persons using, claiming or in any manner asserting any right to the use of
the waters of the Klamath River Basin under the authority of either state shall
be subject to the terms of this compact. 

       B. Nothing in
this compact shall be construed to limit or prevent either state from
instituting or maintaining any action or proceeding, legal or equitable, in any
court of competent jurisdiction for the protection of any right under this
compact or the enforcement of any of its provisions. 

       C. Should a court
of competent jurisdiction hold any part of this compact to be contrary to the
Constitution of either state or the United States, all other provisions shall
continue in full force and effect, unless it is authoritatively and finally
determined judicially that the remaining provisions cannot operate for the
purposes, or substantially in the manner, intended by the states independently
of the portions declared unconstitutional or invalid. 

       D. Except as to
matters requiring the exercise of discretion by the commission, the provisions
of this compact shall be self-executing and shall by operation of law be
conditions of the various state permits, licenses or other authorizations
relating to the waters of the Klamath River Basin issued after the effective
date of this compact. 

       E. The physical
and other conditions peculiar to the Klamath River Basin constitute the basis
for this compact, and neither of the states hereby, nor the Congress of the
United States by its consent, considers that this compact establishes any
general principle or precedent with respect to any other interstate stream. 

 ARTICLE XIII 

 RATIFICATION 

       A. This compact
shall become effective when ratified by the legislature of each signatory
state, and when consented to by an Act of Congress of the United States which
will, in substance, meet the provisions hereinafter set forth in this Article. 

       B. The Act of
Congress referred to in subdivision A of this Article shall provide that the
United States or any agency thereof, and any entity acting under any license or
other authority granted under the laws of the United States (referred to in
this Article as “the United States”), in connection with developments
undertaken after the effective date of this compact pursuant to laws of the
United States, shall comply with the following requirements: 

       1. The United
States shall recognize and be bound by the provisions of subdivision A of
Article III. 

       2. The United
States shall not, without payment of just compensation, impair any rights to
the use of water for use (a) or (b) within the Upper Klamath River Basin by the
exercise of any powers or rights to use or control water (i) for any purpose
whatsoever outside the Klamath River Basin by diversions in California or (ii)
for any purpose whatsoever within the Klamath River Basin other than use (a) or
(b). But the exercise of powers and rights by the United States shall be
limited under this paragraph 2 only as against rights to the use of water for
use (a) or (b) within the Upper Klamath River Basin which are acquired as
provided in subdivision B of Article III after the effective date of this
compact, but only to the extent that annual depletions in the flow of the
Klamath River at Keno resulting from the exercise of such rights to use water
for uses (a) and (b) do not exceed 340,000 acre-feet in any one calendar year. 

       3. The United
States shall be subject to the limitation on diversions of waters from the
basin of Jenny Creek as provided in subdivision A of Article VIII. 

       4. The United
States shall be governed by all the limitations and provisions of paragraph 2
and subparagraph (a) of paragraph 3 of subdivision B of Article III. 

       5. The United
States, with respect to any irrigation or reclamation development undertaken by
the United States in the Upper Klamath River Basin in California, shall provide
that substantially all of the return flows and waste water finally resulting
from such diversions and use appearing as surface waters in the Upper Klamath
River Basin shall be made to drain so as to be eventually returned to the
Klamath River upstream from Keno, unless the Secretary of the Interior shall
determine that compliance with this requirement would render it less feasible
than under an alternate plan of development, in which event such return flows
and waste waters shall be returned to the Klamath River at a point above Copco
Lake. 

       C. Upon enactment
of the Act of Congress referred to in subdivision A of this Article and so long
as such Act shall be in effect, the United States, when exercising rights to
use water pursuant to state law, shall be entitled to all of the same privileges
and benefits of this compact as any person exercising similar rights. 

       D. Such Act of
Congress shall not be construed as relieving the United States of any
requirement of compliance with state law which may be provided by other federal
statutes. 

 ARTICLE XIV 

 TERMINATION 

       This compact may
be terminated at any time by legislative consent of both states, but despite
such termination, all rights then established hereunder or recognized hereby
shall continue to be recognized as valid by the states. 

 ______________________________________________________________________________
[1957 c.142 §2] 

   

       542.630 Water
Resources Director to represent state in administering the Klamath River Basin
Compact. The Water
Resources Director shall be the only representative of this state in
administering the Klamath River Basin Compact set forth in ORS 542.620. The
director shall receive no additional compensation for services as such
representative, but, subject to any other applicable law regulating mileage and
traveling and other expenses for state officers, shall receive actual and
necessary traveling and other expenses incurred in the performance of official
functions as such representative, to be paid in the same manner and out of the
same moneys as other similar expenses of the director are paid. [1957 c.142 §3] 

   

       542.710 [Formerly 184.460; 2009 c.762 §85;
repealed by 2015 c.767 §4] 

   

       542.720 [Formerly 184.470; repealed by
2015 c.767 §4] 

   

 WATERSHED PROTECTION
AND FLOOD PREVENTION PROJECTS 

   

       542.750
Cooperative studies of projects under federal Watershed Protection
and Flood Prevention Act. 
(1) The Water Resources Commission may make surveys and investigations and
prepare plans, specifications, estimates and other data, as in the commission’s
judgment can accomplish the purposes of the Watershed Protection and Flood
Prevention Act. As soon as practicable after completion the commission shall
prepare, or have prepared, a report setting forth the results of the surveys
and investigations. All work performed by the commission under this section
shall be correlated with that performed by the United States Natural Resources
Conservation Service, or its successor agency, under the Watershed Protection
and Flood Prevention Act. 

       (2) The
commission, on behalf of the State of Oregon, may enter into contracts or
agreements with any agencies of the United States Department of Agriculture for
the execution of surveys and investigations and the preparation of plans,
specifications and estimates or other data to determine costs and feasibility
of reservoir or other works of improvement that may be constructed under the
provisions of the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act, as amended. 

       (3) The intent of
this section is to expedite the investigation and planning of works of
improvement that may be constructed under the Watershed Protection and Flood
Prevention Act to reduce the delay in time occurring between initiation of a
project and beginning of construction. [1961 c.617 §§1,2; 1965 c.95 §1; 1985
c.673 §138; 1997 c.249 §181; 2003 c.14 §347] 

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
