 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 


 Chapter
373 — Roads and Highways Through Cities 

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

   

 ROADS AND HIGHWAYS THROUGH CITIES 

   

 HIGHWAYS, ROADS, BRIDGES AND
FERRIES 

   

 STATE HIGHWAYS THROUGH CITIES 

   

 373.010     Routing and marking
state highways through cities 

   

 373.015     Notice and hearing
before location, relocation or abandonment of state highway through cities 

   

 373.020     Jurisdiction over
streets taken over for state highway routing through cities; effect on public
utility duties 

   

 373.030     Construction and
maintenance of streets; consent of city for grade change 

   

 373.050     Closing streets that
intersect with state highways routed through city 

   

 373.060     State liable for street
closing damages; proceedings on cause of action 

   

 USE OF CITY STREETS BY COUNTY 

   

 373.110     Connecting county road
to state highway by road through city 

   

 373.120     Connecting county roads
by roads through certain cities 

   

 373.130     County use of city
streets as bridge approach 

   

 POWERS OF CITIES RELATING TO ROADS
AND HIGHWAYS 

   

 373.210     Improvement of through
highways by certain cities 

   

 373.220     Procedure to authorize
improvement 

   

 373.230     Charter or ordinance
provisions governing improvement 

   

 373.240     General road fund of
city 

   

 373.250     Use of city road fund 

   

 373.260     Agreements between
counties and cities as to acquisition of rights of way and road improvement 

   

 373.270     Transferring
jurisdiction over county roads within cities 

   

 373.280     Assessments made by
city under belief county road was city street 

   

 373.290     Amity given control of
county roads and highways declared streets 

   

 373.300     Monmouth given control
of certain highways declared streets 

   

 373.310     Myrtle Point given
jurisdiction over certain county roads declared streets 

   

 373.320     Salem given control of
roads declared streets 

   

 373.330     City of Gresham given
jurisdiction of certain county roads declared city streets 

   

 STATE HIGHWAYS THROUGH CITIES 

   

       373.010
Routing and marking state highways through cities. Whenever the route of any state
highway passes through the corporate limits of any city of this state, the
Department of Transportation: 

       (1) Shall select
and designate the streets of the city over which the state highway shall be
routed. 

       (2) Shall erect
and maintain such road and other signs on and along such streets at such places
and of such material and design as it may select. 

       (3) May alter or
change such routing when in its opinion the interests of the motoring public
will be better served. [Amended by 1957 c.663 §2] 

   

       373.015 Notice
and hearing before location, relocation or abandonment of state highway through
cities. (1) Except
as provided in ORS 374.329, before the Department of Transportation acquires
within any incorporated city any new rights of way, or relocates or abandons
any existing state highway within any incorporated city, the department shall
notify the mayor of the city by letter of the action contemplated by the
department. 

       (2) If the
department receives from the mayor or city council any remonstrances or
objections within 10 days after the mayor received the letter under subsection
(1) of this section, the department, or its designated representative, shall
hold a public hearing at the city hall in the city. 

       (3) The
department shall provide written notice to the mayor at least 10 days prior to
the public hearing, and at the public hearing persons who favor or oppose the
contemplated action shall be given an opportunity to be heard. [1955 c.447 §1;
2011 c.330 §21] 

   

       373.020
Jurisdiction over streets taken over for state highway routing through cities;
effect on public utility duties. 
(1) Complete jurisdiction and control of streets taken over by the Department
of Transportation as provided in ORS chapter 366 and ORS 105.760, 373.010,
373.015, 373.030 and this section, is vested in the department and extends from
curb to curb, or, if there is no regular established curb, then such control
extends over such portion of the right of way as may be utilized by the
department for highway purposes. Responsibility for and jurisdiction over all
other portions of the street or road remains in the city. 

       (2) All cities
retain the right to grant the privilege to open the surface of any such street
or road, but all damage occasioned thereby shall promptly be repaired by the
city, either itself or at its direction, and the responsibility for the cost
thereof shall be upon the city permitting the opening. 

       (3) Cities retain
the exclusive right to grant franchises over, beneath and upon any such street
or road, and to control and regulate such franchises and the utilization
thereof, but the department may utilize any storm sewers thereon or thereunder
without cost or charge therefor by the city. 

       (4) Nothing
contained in ORS chapter 366 and ORS 105.760, 373.010, 373.015, 373.030 and
this section, relieves any public utility or telecommunications utility from
the maintenance and repair of any street or portion thereof or the performance
of any other obligation required under any franchise granted to it by any city.
[Amended by 1979 c.186 §14; 1987 c.447 §121; 1995 c.79 §202] 

   

       373.030
Construction and maintenance of streets; consent of city for grade change. (1) The Department of
Transportation may construct, reconstruct, pave and improve and shall repair
and maintain streets and roads through cities where such streets or roads, or
both: 

       (a) Form a link
in the highway system of the state or constitute a connection between two such
highways; and 

       (b) Have been
designated by the department as the streets or roads over which there is routed
state highway traffic. 

       (2) The
department, however, shall not change or establish any grade of any such street
or road without the consent of the governing body of the city. 

   

       373.040 [Amended by 1955 c.490 §1;
renumbered 105.760] 

   

       373.050
Closing streets that intersect with state highways routed through city. (1) Whenever the Department of
Transportation has located a highway in, into or through the corporate limits
of a city upon or over an alignment or route not theretofore comprising a city
street and has acquired the necessary rights of way therefor and constructed a
highway thereover, or whenever the department, pursuant to ORS 373.010 has
selected and designated streets over which to route a state highway within an
incorporated city, the department may close any street at the point where it
intersects or is intersected by the state highway or by the streets selected
and designated as the route of a state highway, by a formal agreement with the
municipal authorities of a city set out in a resolution or ordinance of the
city, designating the particular streets to be closed by name and intersection. 

       (2) Before any
municipal authorities enter into any such formal agreement with the department,
such municipal authorities shall comply with all city ordinances or charter
provisions pertaining to the closing of streets in the city. 

       (3) Before the
street can be closed or dead-ended, the department shall, after investigation,
find and declare by resolution that the closing of the street at the point of
intersection is necessary in order to provide safety for the general public or
will contribute to a more expeditious and orderly movement of traffic, or both. 

   

       373.060 State
liable for street closing damages; proceedings on cause of action. (1) If by the closing of any
street as provided in ORS 373.050, real property abutting on the intersected
street between the point of intersection and the next street, but in no event
beyond a point 300 feet from the point of intersection, is damaged, any person
having any right, title or interest in any such real property has a cause of
action against the state to enforce payment of such compensation or damages. 

       (2) Any such
action may be commenced and prosecuted in the circuit court for the county in
which such real property is situated. Any party to any such action has the
right to appeal from the judgment of any circuit court to the Court of Appeals.
Any person having or claiming any right, title or interest in such real
property may join as party plaintiff or may intervene in any action involving
real property in which the person claims an interest. 

       (3) The trial
circuit court shall, in its general judgment, apportion such compensation as it
may award among the various persons found by it to own or have some right,
title or interest in such real property. The awarded compensation shall be
apportioned according to the rules of law governing the distribution of awards
made when real property is taken under the power of eminent domain. 

       (4) The liability
of the state and of the municipality terminates wholly when the compensation
thus determined is paid into court. Any cause of action granted by this section
is barred unless it is commenced within six months after the street is closed and
entrance from the street to the state highway or intersecting street is
physically barred. [Amended by 1979 c.562 §13; 2003 c.576 §251] 

   

 USE OF CITY STREETS BY
COUNTY 

   

       373.110
Connecting county road to state highway by road through city. (1) Whenever in its judgment it is
necessary, for the purpose of connecting an existing county road with an
existing state highway, that the connecting road be located, established and
designated over property within the boundaries of a city, the county court or
board of county commissioners may designate, locate, establish, construct and
maintain the connecting road over property within the corporate limits of the
city as a county road. 

       (2) The procedure
for the establishment of the connecting road may be by petition of freeholders
or by a resolution of the county court or board of county commissioners as
provided by law for the establishment of county roads. 

       (3) In addition
to the authority provided by law for the acquisition of rights of way, in the
event the connecting road is established by petition of freeholders or by its
resolution, the county court or board of county commissioners may acquire
private property within the corporate limits of the city for rights of way for
the connecting road by exercise of the power of eminent domain, under the
procedure provided by law for exercise of the power of eminent domain by
counties for the acquisition of private property for rights of way for county
roads. 

   

       373.120
Connecting county roads by roads through certain cities. The county court or board of
county commissioners may construct and pave streets and roads through cities of
less than 2,500 population, as shown by the last federal census, where such
streets and roads are for the purpose of connecting county roads and highways. [Amended
by 1957 c.71 §1] 

   

       373.130 County
use of city streets as bridge approach. Whenever any county constructs across any stream any
bridge which is wholly or in part within the limits of any city within the
county, the county may use as approaches for the bridge such portions as may be
necessary of any street of the city leading to the bridge. The power, dominion
and right of control over and to improve and maintain the portions of any
street so used belong exclusively to the county. 

   

 POWERS OF CITIES
RELATING TO ROADS AND HIGHWAYS 

   

       373.210
Improvement of through highways by certain cities. Any city having a population of
less than 100,000 may provide for the improvement of any roads or streets
within the limits of the city at the partial expense of the general fund of the
city in the manner provided in ORS 373.220 and 373.230, where: 

       (1) Such roads or
streets are parts of any general system of state or county roads or highways;
or 

       (2) Such roads or
streets directly connect with state or county roads or highways; 

       (3) Such roads or
streets afford an outlet from the limits of the city to adjoining state or
county roads or highways; or 

       (4) Such roads or
streets provide the most accessible or generally traveled route from within the
city to beyond the limits of the city. 

   

       373.220
Procedure to authorize improvement. 
Whenever, by majority vote of the legislative authorities of a city mentioned
in ORS 373.210 or by initiative vote by the people thereof, it is deemed
advisable to construct or improve such designated roads or streets at the
partial expense of the general fund of the municipality, the governing body
shall so declare by ordinance, stating what portion of the cost shall be paid
out of the general fund of the municipality and what portion shall be paid by
assessment against property in the manner provided by charter or ordinance
provisions of the city, unless the amount or proportion has been fixed by the
initiative measure. 

   

       373.230
Charter or ordinance provisions governing improvement. Except as to the provision that a
portion of the cost of the improvement mentioned in ORS 373.220 may be paid out
of the general fund of the city, all other charter or ordinance provisions
govern in the matter of the construction and improvement of such roads and
streets. 

   

       373.240
General road fund of city. 
The general road fund of any city shall consist of the road money set apart for
the city as a road district or otherwise, under the laws of the state, out of
the road tax levied by the county, which the county treasurer shall pay to the
city, and any other money placed in the road fund of the city by the orders of
the city governing body. 

   

       373.250 Use of
city road fund. 
The road fund mentioned in ORS 373.240: 

       (1) Shall be used
by the city for the construction and repair of county roads and streets
therein. 

       (2) May be used
for the construction and repair of roads without a city having a population of
less than 100,000 which lead directly to it. 

       (3) In carrying
out such objects, may be used jointly with the county in which the city is
located as provided in ORS 373.260. 

   

       373.260
Agreements between counties and cities as to acquisition of rights of way and
road improvement. 
(1) The county court or the board of county commissioners of any county and the
authorities of any city within the county may enter into an agreement for the
construction, improvement or repair of, and the acquisition of right of way
for: 

       (a) Any county
road or city street within the corporate limits of the city. 

       (b) Any road
without such city, if it has a population of less than 100,000, but leading
directly to it. 

       (2) In the
agreements the parties shall agree upon the proportion which each shall
contribute toward such acquisition, construction, improvement or repair and
upon the method and kind of acquisition, construction, improvement or repair to
be made. [Amended by 1955 c.388 §1] 

   

       373.270
Transferring jurisdiction over county roads within cities. (1) Jurisdiction over a county
road within a city may be transferred under this section whenever: 

       (a) The county
governing body deems it necessary, expedient or for the best interest of the
county to surrender jurisdiction over any county road or portion thereof within
the corporate limits of any city; and 

       (b) The governing
body of the city deems it necessary or expedient and for the best interests of
the city to acquire jurisdiction over the county road or part thereof to the
same extent as it has over other public streets and alleys of the city. 

       (2) To initiate a
proceeding for the transfer of jurisdiction under this section, the county
governing body, upon its own motion or upon the request of the city by its
governing body, shall give notice by: 

       (a) Posting in
three public places in the county, one of which shall be within the limits of
the city; or 

       (b) Publishing
the notice once a week for four successive weeks in some newspaper of general
circulation in the county. 

       (3) Notice under
this section shall give the time and place of hearing and a succinct statement
of the proposed action requested and describing the road or portion thereof
proposed to be surrendered by the county to the city with convenient certainty. 

       (4) At the time
and place mentioned in the notice under this section or at such adjournment as
it may fix, the county governing body shall hear the matter, consider any
objections or testimony offered by any person interested and determine whether
it is necessary, expedient or for the best interests of the county to surrender
jurisdiction over the county road or portion thereof to the city. 

       (5) If a county
governing body determines to surrender jurisdiction under this section and
initiates action under this section: 

       (a) The county
governing body shall make an order to that effect and offer to the city to
surrender jurisdiction over the county road or portion thereof, and may limit
the time for the acceptance of the offer; and 

       (b) The city by
appropriate municipal legislation may within the time specified accept the
county order and offer to surrender jurisdiction under this section. 

       (6) If a city
governing body determines to initiate action under this section for the
surrender of jurisdiction by a county over a county road: 

       (a) The city
governing body may initiate the action by passage of appropriate municipal
legislation that requests surrender and that may set any time or other
limitations upon acceptance by the city of the surrender; and 

       (b) The county
governing body may surrender jurisdiction of the county road without further
action by the city if the county governing body adopts an order surrendering
the county road that meets the limitations established by the city in its
legislation. 

       (7) When a city
adopts appropriate municipal legislation accepting a county governing body’s
order under subsection (5) of this section or when a county governing body
adopts an order meeting city legislation under subsection (6) of this section: 

       (a) The
jurisdiction of the county over the county road or portion thereof as a county
road, or for its improvement, construction or repair shall cease; 

       (b) The full and
absolute jurisdiction over the road for all purposes of repair, construction,
improvement and the levying and collection of assessments therefor shall vest
in the city; and 

       (c) The city
shall have the same jurisdiction over the road or portion thereof as by its
charter and the laws of the state are given or granted it over any of the
public streets and alleys of such city. 

       (8) This section
is applicable to all county roads, whether acquired by the county or the public
by condemnation, defective condemnation and user, user or prescription or in
any manner provided by law or in which the easement for road purposes is in the
public. [Amended by 1981 c.153 §73] 

   

       373.280
Assessments made by city under belief county road was city street. No assessment made by any city for
the improvement of any county road or portion thereof under the bona fide
belief of its governing body that it was a public street of the city is invalid
where the property owner has permitted the city to make the improvement or
where the county has surrendered jurisdiction to the city within the time when
the assessment is otherwise collectible by law, if within the time the
assessment would be otherwise collectible the city acquires full jurisdiction
over the county road or portion thereof as provided in ORS 373.270. 

   

       373.290 Amity
given control of county roads and highways declared streets. The incorporated city of Amity, in
Yamhill County, has exclusive control and jurisdiction over all county roads
and highways within its corporate boundaries. Such county roads and highways
are streets, subject to all the burdens and servitudes thereof. The control of
such county roads and highways is excepted out of the jurisdiction of the
County Court of Yamhill County. 

   

       373.300
Monmouth given control of certain highways declared streets. The city of Monmouth, in Polk
County, has full and exclusive jurisdiction, power and control over all that
part of the highway known as Monmouth Avenue from its intersection with Main
Street north to the northeast corner of University Out Lot B located within the
corporate limits of the city. Such highway is a street, subject to all the
burdens and servitudes thereof. The control of such highway is excepted out of
the jurisdiction of the County Court of Polk County. 

   

       373.310 Myrtle
Point given jurisdiction over certain county roads declared streets. (1) The city of Myrtle Point, in
Coos County, has absolute and complete jurisdiction over the following portions
of the following county roads located within the corporate limits of the city: 

       (a) All that
portion of any county roads within the corporate limits of the city, lying
along First Street and the whole thereof, as such street is described upon the
plat of the original town (now city) of Myrtle Point, now on file and of record
in the office of the county clerk for Coos County. 

       (b) All that
portion of the county roads within the corporate limits of the city, lying on
or along Spruce Street and the whole thereof, as shown upon the plat of the
original town (now city) of Myrtle Point and upon the plat of the first
extension to the original town (now city) of Myrtle Point, now on file and of
record in the office of the county clerk of Coos County. 

       (c) All that
portion of the county roads within the corporate limits of the city, lying upon
or along First Street, being Spruce Street extended, and the whole thereof, as
shown upon the plats of Border & Bender’s addition to the town (now city)
of Myrtle Point, Border & Bender’s extension to Border & Bender’s
addition to the town (now city) of Myrtle Point, Sengstacken’s addition to the
town (now city) of Myrtle Point and J. H. Roberts’ addition to the town (now
city) of Myrtle Point, now on file and of record in the office of the county
clerk for Coos County. 

       (d) All that
portion of any county roads within the corporate limits of the city, lying
along Railroad Avenue and the whole thereof, as shown upon the plats of the
first extension to the original town (now city) of Myrtle Point, Lehnherr’s
addition to the town (now city) of Myrtle Point, Brown’s first addition to the
town (now city) of Myrtle Point, Brown’s second addition and Smith’s addition
to the town (now city) of Myrtle Point, now on file and of record in the office
of the county clerk for Coos County. 

       (2) The city of
Myrtle Point has jurisdiction over such portion of the roads in the same manner
and to the same extent that it has jurisdiction over such streets, such
portions to be streets of the city of Myrtle Point. 

   

       373.320 Salem
given control of roads declared streets. All county roads or other roads under the
jurisdiction of the county court of Marion or Polk County, within the corporate
limits of the City of Salem, are streets of the city. The city has exclusive
control and jurisdiction over all such roads. The county courts of Marion and
Polk Counties have no jurisdiction thereof. 

   

       373.330 City
of Gresham given jurisdiction of certain county roads declared city streets. (1) As used in this section, “road
funds” means: 

       (a) State Highway
Fund moneys allocated to Multnomah County as provided in ORS 366.739; and 

       (b) Taxes imposed
on motor vehicle fuel by Multnomah County. 

       (2) The county
roads within the corporate limits of the City of Gresham, in Multnomah County,
are transferred and designated to be within the exclusive control and
jurisdiction of the City of Gresham. These county roads are city streets,
subject to all of the burdens and servitudes of city streets. Multnomah County
does not have control of or jurisdiction over the roads described in this
subsection. 

       (3) Multnomah
County and the City of Gresham shall enter into an agreement concerning the
distribution of the total road funds of the county. When Multnomah County and
the City of Gresham have reached an agreement, they shall notify the Oregon
Transportation Commission and the Office of the Legislative Counsel. [2005
c.773 §1] 

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
